A partly submerged glacier cave on perito मोरेनो Glacier.
The बर्फ मुखाग्र is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis glacier cave
A हिमानी cave is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier.
Glacier caves are often called ice caves, but this term is properly used to describe bedrock गुफाएं that contain year-round ice.
In physics, circular motion is a movement of an object along the परिधि of a वृत्त or रोटेशन साथ a गोलाकार path.
It can be वर्दी, साथ निरंतर angular rate of rotation ( and constant speed ), or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation.
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional देह involves गोलाकार motion of its parts.
The equations of motion describe the गति of the बीच of द्रव्यमान of a body.
उदाहरण of गोलाकार गति शामिल : an कृत्रिम उपग्रह orbiting the धरती at निरंतर ऊँचाई, a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a रस्सी और is being swung in circles, a car turning through a curve in a race track, an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field, and a gear turning inside a mechanism.
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction, the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a अभिकेन्द्रीय फ़ोर्स in the दिशा of the center of rotation.
Without this त्वरण, the ऑब्जेक्ट होता मूव in a सीधा line, according to Newton 's laws of motion.
Apollo पंथ is a fictional अक्षर इससे the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World.
He was निभाई by कार्ल Weathers.
Creed had multiple nicknames, including The Master of Disaster, The King of Sting, The Dancing Destroyer, The प्रिंस of पंच, the एक और तभी और the गिनती of Monte Fisto.
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' पंथ, a बयान of विश्वास प्रयुक्त in ईसाई चर्च.
All of Apollo 's championship fights were scheduled for the 15 गोलाकार distance.
Championship fights did not बदलें इससे 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red, white, और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ थी the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white, as seen in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature colors were black and gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in the नवीनतम movie.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख ii of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) साथ appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over अलग regions of the संयुक्त States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal सरकारी by आलेख iii of the u.S. संविधान.
In जोड, न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor confirmed by the Senate, and their power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I and आलेख iii अधिकरणों.
the beretta 21a बॉबकैट is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the beretta u.s.A. सुविधा in Accokeek, Maryland.
It is a further विकास of the Beretta Model 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to vul ) is a प्रकार of life insurance that builds a cash value.
In a vul, the नकदी मान can be invested in a चौड़ी किस्में of पृथक खाते, समान to mutual funds, and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' घटक in the नाम refers to इस क्षमता to invest in separate accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets.
The 'universal ' component in the नाम refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments.
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue कोड लिये जीवन बीमे.
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium ऋण विशेषता, or आत्मसमर्पण dividends to अदा a पूरे Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance, because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient नकदी value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy.
With most if not सब vuls, नापसंद पूरे जीवन, वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the age at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount, which for whole life is typically 100 ).
This is yet another कुंजी लाभ of VUL over Whole Life.
With a typical whole life policy, the death benefit is सीमित to the फेस राशि specified in the policy, and at endowment age, the face amount is all that is paid out.
Thus with either मौत or endowment, the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years.
However, some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the नीति जिससे बढ़ाएँ दोनो the cash value and the death benefit over time.
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the सामान्य खाता of the बीमे company, a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment age, continually increasing death benefit, and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a vul नीति, इस could परिणाम in उच्चतर मान to the मालिक or लाभार्थी than कि of a पूरे जीवन policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums.
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors जबकि स्टिल transferring the ऊष्मा to interior buildings.
A mound of लड़की Scout cookies.
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its major fundraisers for local स्काउट इकाई.
Members of the gsusa have been selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds.
Girls who participate can earn पुरस्कार लिये their efforts.
There are also unit incentives if the ईकाई as a whole does well.
As of 2007, sales were estimated at परिचय 200 लाख boxes per year.
University हॉल
Purdue University, स्तिथ in वेस्ट lafayette, इंडियाना, is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant विश्वविद्यालयों जब the इंडियाना सामान्य सभा, लेने लाभ of the Morrill Act, accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name.
The first classes were held on सितंबर 16, 1874, साथ छह instructors and 39 students.
Today, Purdue is a member of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन, और is a well known world-class research institution.
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों in इंडियाना as well as the fourth largest international student population of any university in the United States.
Purdue offers both undergraduate and ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211 प्रमुख क्षेत्रों of पढ़ाई, and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula.
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation, having स्थापित the पहला कॉलेज क्रेडिट offered in उड़ान प्रशिक्षण, the पहला four-year स्नातक 's degree in aviation, and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation technology कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific programs in the world.
In the mid-20th century, Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving वृद्धि to purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts, including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ), Neil आर्मस्ट्रांग ( the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना on the चंद्रमा ), और यूजीन Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a पद कि loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles, by definition, neither प्रकार of गाँठ is strictly a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, white, semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is नहीं sebum, but keratin.
furthermore, अंतर्गत the microscope neither entity contains sebaceous glands.
In अभ्यास, however, the terms are often used interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Modern pointe shoes.
The edge of the टो pad, which is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning, can be seen on the right foot.
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by बैले नर्तक when performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes developed from the ख्वाहिश लिये नर्तक to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the भद्दा stepsisters in सिंडरेला, नीचे in a midsummer रात्रि 's सपना, or मेन performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva.
They are manufactured in a variety of रंगों, सबसे commonly in shades of light pink.
This tablespoon has a capacity of about 15 mL.
measuring Spoons
In the us और भाग of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl.
In the UK, Europe and सबसे राष्ट्रमंडल countries, a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon, the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the मिठाई चमचा or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of one tablespoon, is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is विषय to considerable variation.
In the USA एक tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is लगभग 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL.
In Australia one tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is 20 mL.
हैरी कुम्हार is a श्रेणी of सात काल्पनिक novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a जादूगर, हैरी कुम्हार, और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी Granger, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort, whose aims are to become immortal, जीतें the wizarding संसार, subjugate non-magical लोगों, and destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter.
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the पारस 's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997, the किताबे have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide.
the श्रेणी रै भी था कुछ share of criticism, including concern for the increasingly dark tone.
, the book series has sold about 450 लाख नक़ल, बनाना it the best-selling book series in history, and has been translated into 67 languages.
The last four books consecutively नियत रिकॉर्ड as the fastest-selling books in history.
A series of many genres, including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery, thriller, adventure, and romance ), it रै अनेक सांस्कृतिक meanings और सन्दर्भ.
According to रोलिंग, the main theme is death.
वहीँ हैं भी अनेक other themes in the series, such as prejudice and corruption.
the आरंभिक प्रमुख प्रकाशक of the books were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States.
The books have चूंकि महरूम प्रकाशित by अनेक publishers worldwide.
The books, with the seventh book split into दो भाग, have महरूम बना into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time.
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise, बनाना the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion.
Also due to the success of the books and films, Harry Potter has been used for a theme park, The Wizarding World of Harry कुम्हार in सार्वभौमिक पार्क & रिसॉर्ट 's Islands of Adventure.
RS-68 being tested at नासा 's Stennis Space Center.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this इंजन 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
viking 5C rocket engine
A rocket engine, or simply `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '', is a जेट इंजन कि उपयोग only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet.
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance साथ Newton 's third law.
Since they need no external material to form their jet, rocket engines can be used for spacecraft नोदन as खूब as स्थलीय उपयोग, ऐसे as missiles.
Most rocket engines are internal combustion engines, although non-combusting फ़ॉर्म भी exist.
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities, are by far the lightest, लकिन हैं the तनिक propellant efficient of all types of jet engines.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a song by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार Britney Spears.
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track इससे उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम,... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami, ``... Baby एक अधिक समय '' थी released on सितंबर 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
After रिकॉर्डिंग और sending a डेमो tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton, Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop song that refers to a girl who regrets breaking up साथ her boyfriend.
the सोंग प्राप्त generally favorable reviews from critics, who praised its composition.
``... Baby One More Time '' attained global success, reaching number one in प्रत्येक देश it charted.
It also received numerous certifications around the world, और is एक of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies sold.
An accompanying music video, directed by Nigel Dick, portrays Spears as a student from a Catholic high स्कूल, जो starts to daydream कि वो is गायन और नाचना around the school, while watching her love interest from afar.
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), where Spears 's fictional daughter is वेश साथ a समान schoolgirl पहनावा while wearing pink ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये ``... baby एक अधिक Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll held by Jam !.
Spears has performed ``... Baby One More Time '' in a number of सजीव दिखावे and in all of her concert tours.
It was the encore of the... Baby One More समय दौरे ( 1999 ) और सपना भीतर a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops !...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ), The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ), The Circus Starring britney स्पीयर्स ( 2009 ), और the femme fatale दौरे ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One More Time '' was nominated लिये a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा Pop Vocal Performance, and has been included in lists by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It has been noted for redefining the ध्वनि of late 1990s music.
स्पीयर्स रै नामित ``... Baby One More Time '' as one of her favorite songs from her career.
It was also the final song to be played on the बीबीसी 's म्यूज़िक कार्यक्रम Top of the Pops.
Cholera is an संक्रमण in the छोटी आंत caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The main लक्षण हैं watery diarrhea and vomiting.
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति, सहित one with no apparent symptoms.
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte असंतुलन, और मौत in कुछ cases.
The primary treatment is oral पुनर्जलीकरण चिकित्सा, typically with oral rehydration solution, to replace water and electrolytes.
If this is not tolerated or does not provide सुधार तेज़ पर्याप्त, intravenous fluids can also be used.
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe disease to shorten its duration and severity.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 लाख लोगों and causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the सीसे स्टोरी in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 June 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted, so वे censored roughly 500 शब्द, without Wilde 's knowledge, before publication.
But even with that, the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers, some of whom suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading वाइल्ड to बचाव the अनोखा aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story for book publication, making substantial alterations, deleting controversial passages, adding नई अध्याय और सहित an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right.
The amended version was published by वार्ड, ताला और कम्पनी in April 1891.
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the संस्करण he originally सुपुर्द to lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a young man नामित डोरियन धूसर, the विषय of a painting by artist Basil Hallward.
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him, believing उसके सौंदर्य is responsible for a new mode in his art.
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton, a friend of बेसिल 's, और becomes enthralled by रब Henry 's world view.
espousing a नई hedonism, रब हेनरी suggests the only things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade, Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to बेचें उसके आत्मा to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery, the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each अधिनियम रै upon उसके आत्मा, साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
The चित्र of डोरियन धूसर is माना a work of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ), is a Hungarian -born American अभिनेत्री जो acted in supporting भूमिकाएँ in फिल्मों, on ब्रॉडवे, और occasionally on television.
गैबर was also a socialite.
She began her stage career in Vienna at आयु 15, और थी पहनाया Miss Hungary in 1936.
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after अभिनेत्री साथ `` यूरोपीय flair and style '', with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace ''.
Her first movie role was as supporting अभिनेत्री in Lovely to Look At.
She later acted in we 're नहीं शादीशुदा !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin रूज ( 1952 ), निर्देशित by जॉन हस्टन, जो वर्णित उसके as a `` विश्वसनीय '' actress.
Besides her film and television appearances, she is best known for having nine husbands, सहित होटल महारथी कोनराड हिल्टन and actor George Sanders.
She once stated, `` Men have सदा liked me and I have always liked men.
But I like a mannish man, a man who knows कैसा to बात to और दावत a स्त्री – not just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist, actor, martial arts instructor, philosopher, and filmmaker.
The founder of Jeet kune do, ली थी the बेटे of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by commentators, critics, media and other martial कलाकारों to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time, and a pop culture icon of the 20th century.
He is often credited with helping to बदलें the रास्ता एशियाइ were presented in American films.
Lee was born in चाइनाटाउन, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens.
He was introduced to the फिल्मी उद्योग by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher शिक्षा, and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts.
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new स्तर of लोकप्रियता और acclaim, sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong काँग और the बाकी of the world.
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ), निर्देशित और लिखा by ली ; warner भाइयो ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ), both directed by Robert Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world, particularly among the Chinese, as he portrayed चाइनीज राष्ट्रवाद in his films.
He initially trained in Wing Chun, but later rejected well-defined martial art styles, favouring instead the use of techniques from various sources, in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy, जिससे he उतावले जीत kune do ( the रास्ता of the intercepting Fist ).
Lee held dual नागरिकता of हांग काँग and the United States.
He died in कोलून Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ), chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ), chronic airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time.
This limits airflow to और इससे the lungs, causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ).
In clinical practice, COPD is defined by इसके characteristically कम airflow on lung function tests.
In contrast to asthma, this limitation is poorly reversible and प्रायः gets progressively worse over time.
COPD is caused by noxious अणु or गैस, सबसे commonly इससे तम्बाकू smoking, which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung.
The diagnosis of COPD requires lung फलन परीक्षण.
Important management strategies are smoking cessation, vaccinations, पुनर्वास, और drug therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some मरीजों go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation.
विश्वव्यापी, copd क्रमित as the sixth leading cause of death in 1990.
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of मौत विश्वव्यापी by 2030, due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries.
COPD is the third leading cause of मौत in the u.S., और the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity.
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank (, ?, ; 12 जून 1929early कूच 1945 ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust.
Her diary has been the आधार लिये several plays and films.
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in वाइमर जर्मनी, वो lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
Born a जर्मनी नेशनल, फ़्रैंक lost her citizenship in 1941.
She gained international fame मरणोपरांत बाद उसके डायरी थी प्रकाशित.
It documents her experiences hiding during the German occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स in संसार युद्ध II.
The Frank family moved from Germany to एम्सटर्डम in 1933, the साल the nazis gained कंट्रोल over Germany.
By the beginning of 1940, they were trapped in Amsterdam by the नाजी occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the परिवार गई into छुपाना in the छुपा कक्ष of ऐनी 's father, Otto Frank 's, office building.
After two years, the group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps.
Anne Frank and her सिस्टर, margot, यहूद आखिरकार transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where they died of typhus in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only survivor of the family, returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved, and his efforts led to इसके प्रकाशन in 1947.
It was translated from its असली डच और पहला published in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl.
It has since been translated into अनेक भाषाएं.
The diary, which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday, chronicles her life इससे 12 जून 1942 जबतक 1 अगस्त 1944.
कर्ट 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर, guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल music scene, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC रिकॉर्ड, the बैंड मिला भेदन कामयाबी with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, निर्वाण was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often असहज और कुंठित, believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged निर्वाण 's दर्शक साथ its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled with heroin व्यसन, बीमारी और अवसाद.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public चित्र, और the पेशेवर and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a टॉपिक of public fascination and debate.
चूंकि उनके डेब्यू, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
Radial इंजन समय and cam mechanism.
Click for full resolution एनिमेशन.
Radial engine of a बाईप्लेन
Master rod ( upright ), slaves और balances इससे a two-row, fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft जैसे the तीलियां of a व्हील.
It resembles a stylized star when viewed इससे the सामने, and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages.
The radial विन्यास थी बहुत commonly used in aircraft engines before turbine engines became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom, created by Susan Harris, that originally aired on NBC from September 13, 1985, to may 9, 1992.
Starring Bea Arthur, Betty White, Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty, the show centers on four older महिलाओं sharing a घर in मियामी, फ्लोरिडा.
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions, in association with Touchstone टेलीविज़न, और पॉल junger witt, टोनी थामस, and Harris served as the original executive producers.
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout सबसे of its run and won several awards, including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best Television श्रेणी – Musical or Comedy.
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations.
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of इसके सात seasons.
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas खोजी और उत्पादन in गहराइयों of more than 500 feet.
By this definition, वहीँ हैं लगभग 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
It has been economically infeasible लिये अनेक सालो, लकिन साथ उठती oil prices, more companies are investing in this area.
प्रमुख कंपनियाँ working in this sector include Diamond Offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater खुदाई rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships.
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position संस्थापना ऐसे as a फ्लोटिंग spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
Recent industry विश्लेषण रै अनुमानित कि the कुल व्यय in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“not all oil is accessible on land or in shallow water.
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... Using sonic equipment, आयल कंपनियाँ determine the खुदाई sites most likely to produce oil.
Then they use a mobile offshore खुदाई ईकाई ( MODU ) to dig the initial well.
Some units हैं परिवर्तित into production rigs, meaning they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the समय, the आयल कम्पनी होगा replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture oil.”... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits.
The part of the ड्रिल कि extends नीचे the deck and through the water is called the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to मूव between the मंजिल and the rig.
इंजीनियर्स निम्नतर a ड्रिल string -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite दुर्घटनाओं in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling लाखो of गैलन of आयल into the गल्फ of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such खुदाई, विश्लेषक कह, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater drilling in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives.
“The Energy Department recently प्रक्षिप्त कि गल्फ आयल उत्पादन would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day, still nearly a quarter of total domestic production, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater खुदाई affects the पर्यावरण in both negative and positive ways.
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is स्टिल a hazardous संभावित निष्कर्ष.
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant life leaving मछली बगैर खाना और आश्रय to जीवित.
On the अन्य हाथ deepwater drilling effects the environment in a positive ways too.
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on और around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in.
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the समंदर मंजिल कि हैं hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that are in वहीँ प्राकृतिक आवास, giving वैज्ञानिक a dekh at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra,, ( December 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) was an अमरीकी सिंगर और फिल्मी actor.
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey, Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released his first album, The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946.
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s, but it was reborn in 1953 बाद he जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded एल्बम ( ऐसे as in the मूत छोटी घंटों, गीतों लिये swingin ' प्रेमियों !, Come Fly with Me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise रिकॉर्ड in 1961 ( ढूंढना कामयाबी साथ एल्बम ऐसे as ring-a-ding-ding !, सिनात्रा at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ), toured internationally, was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen, including John F. Kennedy.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective सितंबर of my सालो, स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music, and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way ``.
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films, Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971.
Two years later, however, he came आउट of रिटायरमेंट और in 1973 recorded several albums, scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York, New York `` in 1980.
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base, he toured both भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और internationally, until a short time before his death in 1998.
Sinatra भी forged a highly successful career as a film actor.
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953, he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The Man with the Golden Arm, and critical acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the मंचूरियन Candidate.
He also starred in such musicals as High Society, Pal Joey, यारों और डॉल और on the Town.
सिनात्रा थी सम्मानित at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards, including the ग्रैमी trustees पुरस्कार, ग्रैमी लेजेंड पुरस्कार और the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.
सिनात्रा is भी एक of world’s best-selling artists of all time, having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide.
Typical cornhole फलक
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, corn toss, baggo or bags, is a lawn game in जिससे खिलाड़ी लो turns फेंकना मकई छेद बैग at a raised platform with a hole in the far end.
A bag in the hole scores 3 अंक, जबकि one on the platform scores 1 point.
Play continues जबतक a टोली or player reaches the score of 21.
The अमरीकी सुनहरा त्रिभुज is an official gold bullion coin of the United States.
Authorized under the Gold bullion सिक्का Act of 1985, it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from परंपरागत hatha योग तकनीकों और popularized शुरूआत in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga वर्ग चलाएं लिये 90 मिनट्स और consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a आर्द्रता of 40 %,.
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, हास्य और rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101.
massey रै प्राप्त many awards and nomination including a Young Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations.
He is also known for appearing in several commercials in the जल्दी 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon made of बेदाग स्टील.
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring यंत्र, as खूब as a ईकाई of मापन of आवाज़ in some countries and customs.
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, they have xylem and phloem ( making उन्हें vascular plants ).
They have stems, leaves, and roots like other vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं and have neither seeds nor flowers.
By दूर the largest समूह of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few अन्य बीजरहित vascular पौधे ( देखिए वर्गीकरण section below ).
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 लाख सालो पहले in the जल्दी cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are not of major economic importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as ornamental plants, for remediating contaminated soils, और have महरूम the विषय of शोध लिये उनके ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air.
कुछ हैं significant weeds.
They also play a role in mythology, आयुर्विज्ञान, and art.
Flat roofs in Israel
Flat roof in लॉस एंजिल्स
A flat roof is a type of covering for a भवन.
in कंट्रास्ट to the more sloped form of roof, a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which हैं nearly चपटा हैं ज्ञात as low-pitch roofs ( as the कोण of slope increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of सामग्री प्रयुक्त to कवर a चपटा or low-pitched छत is usually known as a membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run बंद इससे a पतला inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof, though gutter प्रणालियों हैं of लाभ in keeping दोनो walls and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead जल सीधे onto the मैदान, or बेहतर, into a specially made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs usually सीसे जल into the rainwater नाले system of any built up area.
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, usually for aesthetic purposes, or लिये rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs मौजूद सब over the संसार और प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल रै इसके own tradition or preference for materials used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur, many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build जहाँ timber is नहीं readily उपलब्धियाँ.
in क्षेत्रों जहाँ the छत could become संतृप्त by बरसात और leak, or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable.
traditionally सबसे चपटा roofs in the पश्चिमी world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in फेरे covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat, UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation.
Roof decking is usually of plywood, chipboard or osb फलक ( osb = उन्मुख strand फलक, also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar kettle, or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot तारकोल - एकबार it रै cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for failure of ये परंपरागत roofs is अनभिज्ञता or कमी of मेंटेनेंस जहाँ लोगों or कार्यक्रम कारण the बजरी to be स्थानांतरित or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing, thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
tarpaper is प्रायः a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet दीवारें or upstands, tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and प्रशिक्षण of those applying it to produce more or less successful results.
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes ऐसे as epdm रै आइये bas over recent years to make them more and more affordable.
There are now अधिक firms supplying आधुनिक विकल्प and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability.
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to expensive damage from the rot which often develops and if left can weaken the छत ढांचा.
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of इस स्वास्थ्य रिस्क remains a debated point.
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can सफर a long रास्ता पहले causing दृश्य क्षति or टपकती into a भवन जहाँ it can be seen.
Thus it is नहीं easy to see where it is leaking in order to repair it.
एकबार underlying छत अलंकार is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे contains data.
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc read-only मेमोरी ``.
Computers can read cd-roms, लकिन can नहीं लिखें on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software, including वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया applications, though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
कुछ cds, पुकारा उन्नत cds, थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player, while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats, the Yellow Book, created by Sony and Philips, was the पहला एक्सटेंशन of कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क डिजिटल ऑडियो.
It adapted the format to थाम any form of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), pen name J. K. Rowling, is a अंग्रेजों novelist, best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series.
The Potter किताबे have gained विश्वव्यापी attention, won multiple awards, and sold more than 400 million copies.
They have become the best-selling book series in history, and been the आधार लिये a श्रेणी of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history.
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining creative control by सेवारत as a निर्माता on the फाइनल किस्त.
born in yate, ग्लॉस्टरशायर, रोलिंग थी working as a शोधकर्ता and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year period that followed entailed the मौत of उसके माँ, तलाक इससे उसके पहला husband और poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently प्रकाशित 6 sequels—the last, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her एजेंसी और resumed लिखने in the रूप of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership, entitled The Casual Vacancy.
Rowling रै कहा वो is फिलहाल working on दो books—one aimed लिये वयस्कों, the other for children younger than the Harry Potter audience, and she expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story, in which she progressed from living on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire status within five years.
She is the संयुक्त किंगडम 's best-selling author since records began, with sales in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ), रैंकिंग उसके as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom.
Forbes क्रमित रोलिंग as the forty-eighth सबसे शक्तिशाली हस्ती of 2007, and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fans.
In October 2010, Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by अग्रणी पत्रिका editors.
She has become a notable philanthropist, supporting such charities as Comic Relief, One Parent Families, Multiple काठिन्य समाज of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और lumos ( formerly the children 's High Level Group ).
Auburndale is a नगर in polk काउंटी, Florida, United States.
The population was 11,032 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the city had a जनसांख्यिकी of 12,381.
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter हेवन महानगर Statistical Area.
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during expedition 7 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस Station.
The eye, eyewall, and surrounding rainbands, विशेषताएँ of तीव्र cyclones, are clearly visible in this view from space.
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure बीच surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain.
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the संतृप्त एयर उदय, resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than अन्य cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, European windstorms, and polar lows.
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any ऊँचाई in the माहौल, the बीच of a तीव्र चक्रवात will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems.
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems, which usually form in tropical regions of the ग्लोब, और to उनके formation in maritime tropical air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature, with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern गोलार्ध और clockwise हवा प्रवाह in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध.
The opposite दिशा of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis force.
Depending on its location and strength, a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), तूफ़ान ( ), तीव्र storm, cyclonic storm, tropical depression, and simply cyclone.
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds and torrential rain, they are also able to produce high लहरें, damaging तूफ़ान surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over large bodies of warm water, and lose उनके शक्ति if वे मूव over जमीन due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source.
This is why coastal regions can प्राप्त significant damage from a tropical cyclone, while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant flooding inland, and storm surges can produce extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to इससे the तटरेखा.
Although their effects on human populations can be विनाशकारी, tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes, which makes उन्हें an महत्वपूर्ण part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism.
As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere, and to maintain a relatively stable और गरम तापमान worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a कमजोर disturbance in the माहौल हैं favorable.
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation, El Niño-Southern दोलन, और the अटलांटिक multidecadal oscillation.
Others form when अन्य प्रकार of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable, the तीव्र disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall, the प्रणाली weakens and eventually dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of ये प्रणालियों साथ current technology.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; December 9, 1916 ) is an American stage and film actor, film producer and author.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ), The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust for Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral ( 1957 ), The Vikings ( 1958 ), Spartacus ( 1960 ), Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ), सात दिनों in may ( 1964 ), the नायक of telemark ( 1965 ) और मुश्किल यारों ( 1986 ).
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American स्क्रीन महापुरूष of सब समय, बनाना उसे the highest-ranked living person on the list.
In 1996, he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the गति चित्र जातियाँ. ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` सुनहरी आयु ''.
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6, 1945 ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान and roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist, he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last सुना और bob seger प्रणाली throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` प्रणाली '' इससे उसके रिकार्डिंग और जारी to strive for broader success with other various bands.
In 1973, he put together The Silver Bullet Band, a group of Detroit-area musicians, with whom he became most successful on the नेशनल स्तर साथ the एल्बम सजीव गोली, अंकित सजीव साथ the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he achieved a नेशनल ब्रेकआउट साथ the स्टुडियो album Night Moves.
On his studio albums, he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based मांसपेशी shoals लय खण्ड, जिससे appeared on अनेक of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots rocker with a classic raspy, shouting आवाज़, seger लिखा और अंकित songs that dealt with love, women, blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has अंकित अनेक हिट्स, सहित `` रात्रि Moves, '' `` Turn the Page, '' `` We 've Got Tonight, '' `` Against the Wind, '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock, '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock and Roll `` was named one of the गीतों of the सदी in 2001.
With a career spanning five decades, seger continues to perform and record today.
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters हॉल of Fame in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the दफ्तर.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
He graduated from whittier कॉलेज in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, moved to Washington to कार्य लिये the संघीय सरकारी in 1942.
He subsequently served in the United राज्य नेवी दौरान संसार War II.
Nixon was elected in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the running mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon परोसा लिये आठ years as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, और खोया a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again for the प्रेसिडेंसी and was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the anti-ballistic मिसाइल सन्धि साथ the सोवियत संघ the वही year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal दवाएँ, imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत with Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by सदस्यों of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his राजनैतिक support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon जारी by उसके successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक books and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention between अध्यक्ष Grant and Sen. Sumner.
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to अमरीकी साम्राज्यवाद in the caribbean और fearful कि annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti, became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty, and that men close to the president shared in the corruption.
As chairman of the Senate Foreign संबंध कमेटी, sen. sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State, bancroft डेविस, कि u.s. नवल ships were being used to protect President Báez.
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s suggestion and quite possibly to सहेजें the पार्टी इससे an भद्दा लड़ो or the अध्यक्ष from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session.
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in favor of annexation on कूच 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
In closed session, sen. sumner spoke आउट विरूद्ध the सन्धि ; warnng कि वहीँ होता be परेशानी with the foreign nationals, noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island, and the risk that the independence of Haiti, recognized by the United States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी a उल्लंघन of International law and unconstitutional.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and failed to gain the जरूरी 2/3 बहुमत लिये treaty passage.
The following day, President Grant, feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley, Ambassador to Britain.
By autumn, Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge, and he blamed the Secretary of राज्य लिये failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
the दो मेन, friends until then, cooled into bitter enemies.
In December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo डोमिंगो somehow, sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President Grant, supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate विदेशी संबंध Committee.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act, blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury, and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go.
Grant resented Sumner 's बड़प्पन of manner, as well.
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible, the अध्यक्ष is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it. ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, Sumner’s स्वास्थ्य began to decline.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4, 1871, Senators affiliated with President Grant, ज्ञात as ‘’new radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical सिद्धान्त और moral or नैतिक समस्याएं कि उठता in a कारोबार पर्यावरण.
It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations.
Business आचार रै दोनो normative and descriptive dimensions.
As a corporate practice और a करियर specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to समझे business behavior employ descriptive methods.
The दायरा और मात्रा of कारोबार नैतिक issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
Interest in कारोबार आचार त्वरित dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia.
For example, today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic मान अंतर्गत headings ऐसे as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.
Adam Smith said, `` People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the वार्तालाप ends in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध the पब्लिक, or in some contrivance to raise prices. ''
सरकारें उपयोग कानून and regulations to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control.
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate त्वरित the विकास of formal ethics regimes.
A burn is a प्रकार of चोट to flesh or स्किन caused by heat, electricity, chemicals, friction, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the सतही स्किन ( ज्ञात as सतही or पहला उपाधि ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ).
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues, such as muscle or bone can be injured in which case the burn is either पूरा मोटाई ( तीसरा उपाधि ) or fourth degree.
The treatment जरूरी depends on the severity of the burn.
Superficial burns maybe managed with छोटी अधिक than सरल पीड़ा हत्यारे जबकि प्रमुख burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers.
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may परिणाम in कम देह temperature.
Partial thickness burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई साथ साबुन और जल followed by dressings.
फफोले चाहिए typically be left unbroken.
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments such as skin कलम और extensive burns प्रायः आवश्यकता large amount of intravenous fluids.
The most common complications of burns are सम्बन्धित to संक्रमण.
While large burns can be fatal, modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and young adults.
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from burns.
In the United States, of those admitted to a बर्न बीच, लगभग 4 % die from their injuries.
The long term outcome is primarily सम्बन्धित to the size of burn and the age of the person effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, not including Arctic और अंटार्कटिक regions
This video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on फलक the ISS.
The pass starts इससे बस north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa, over South Sudan.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic divisions.
With a total area of about, it covers approximately 20 percent of the Earth 's सतह and about 29 percent of its water surface area.
The first part of its नाम refers to एटलस of यूनानी mythology, making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas ''.
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis थलैसा ( यूनानी : ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ).
The term ethiopic समंदर, निकला इससे Ethiopia, was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century.
Before Europeans खोजा अन्य महासागर, the पद `` समंदर '' itself थी synonymous साथ the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic.
The early Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic नदी encircling the संसार.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east, and the Americas to the west.
As एक घटक of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean.
Due to their long-term हठ, और the need लिये a अद्वितीय पहचानकर्ता in issuing forecasts और चेतावनियाँ, तीव्र cyclones and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
The following are lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are निकला.
White लाइट is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the इंसान eye.
इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण in this range of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light.
A ठेठ इंसान नजर will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of आवृत्ति, इस corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted eye generally रै इसके अधिकतम sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ), in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ).
the वर्णक्रम करता नहीं, however, contain all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or purple variations such as magenta, are absent, लिये उदाहरण, क्युकी वे can be बना तभी by a मिक्सर of अनेक wavelengths.
Colors containing only one wavelength are also पुकारा pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window ``, the region of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An example of this घटना is कि साफ एयर scatters blue light more than red wavelengths, and so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is also called the visible window क्युकी it overlaps the इंसान दृश्य जवाब spectrum.
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision, as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them.
Many species can see light with frequencies बाहर the `` दृश्य वर्णक्रम, '' जिससे is पारिभाषित in terms of human vision.
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light, which helps them find nectar in flowers.
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive कामयाबी to उनके रूप in ultraviolet light, rather than how colorful they appear to humans.
Birds, too, can see into the पराबैंगनी ( 300–400 nm ), और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals that can see into the पराबैंगनी दायरा, however, can नहीं देखिए रेड light or any other reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at परिचय 590nm, बस पहले the orange wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see some red wavelengths, लकिन नहीं as अनेक as humans.
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) संयुक्त by उनके distinctive ब्लैक और श्वेत stripes.
Their धारियाँ आइये in different patterns, unique to each individual.
They are generally सोशल पशु कि सजीव in small harems to large herds.
Unlike their closest relatives, horses and asses, zebras have never महरूम truly domesticated.
There are three species of zebras : the मैदान जेब्रा, the grévy 's जेब्रा and the mountain zebra.
The plains जेब्रा और the पहाड़ जेब्रा belong to the subgenus Hippotigris, but Grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an ass, to which it is closely सम्बन्धित, जबकि the पूर्व दो हैं more horse-like.
All three belong to the genus equus, साथ साथ अन्य living equids.
the अद्वितीय धारियाँ of zebras make them one of the animals most familiar to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, kyu, and coastal hills.
However, various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations, in particular शिकार लिये खालें and habitat destruction.
Grévy 's zebra and the पहाड़ जेब्रा are endangered.
While plains zebras are much अधिक plentiful, एक subspecies, the quagga, became विलुप्त in the लेट 19th सदी – हालांकि there is currently a plan, called the Quagga Project, that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back.
Barry White, born Barry Eugene कार्टर ( – ), थी an अमरीकी composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass आवाज़ और रोमांटिक चित्र, श्वेत 's महानतम कामयाबी आए in the 1970s as a सोलो सिंगर और साथ the Love Unlimited Orchestra, crafting many enduring soul, funk, and disco songs such as his two biggest hits, `` You 're the First, the Last, My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with Isaac Hayes, White is considered by allmusic.com as a पायोनियर of डिस्को music in the early 1970s.
During the course of his career in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार, श्वेत achieved 106 gold albums worldwide, 41 of which also attained platinum status.
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, with worldwide sales in excess of 100 लाख, according to आलोचकों ed होगन और Wade Kergan.
His influences included Rev. James Cleveland, Ray Charles, Aretha Franklin plus motown कलाकारों the supremes, the चार Tops and Marvin Gaye.
Angelina Jolie (, born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, फिल्मी निदेशक, और screenwriter.
She has received an Academy Award, two Screen अभिनेताओं गिल्ड Awards, and three Golden Globe Awards, and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes, and is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United राष्ट्र ऊँची कमिश्नर for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most खूबसूरत '' स्त्री, a title for which she has received substantial media attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ), लकिन उसके फिल्मी करियर began in सच्चाई a दशक बाद साथ the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first अग्रणी भूमिका in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ), and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the drama Girl, Interrupted ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in लारा क्रॉफ्ट : मकबरा रेडर ( 2001 ), और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She continued her action स्टार करियर साथ mr. & mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं to date—and प्राप्त further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ), which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress.
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime drama in the जमीन of रक्त और मधु ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton, Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt, in a संबंध notable लिये fervent media attention.
Jolie and pitt have three biological children and three adopted children.
A natural arch उत्पादित by the अपरदन of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed इससे the धरती 's सतह by exogenetic प्रक्रियाओं such as wind or water flow, and then transported and deposited in other locations.
While erosion is a natural process, human activities have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स the रेट at जिससे अपरदन is occurring globally.
Excessive erosion कल्याणकारी समस्याएं ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण, decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation, sedimentation of waterways, and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined, they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems.
Industrial agriculture, deforestation, roads, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in लिहाज़ to उनके प्रभाव on stimulating अपरदन.
However, there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or सीमा अपरदन, ऐसे as छत -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series जिससे भागा on एमटीवी इससे दिसम्बर 3, 2009 to दिसम्बर 20, 2012 in the United States.
The series follows the जीवनदान of आठ housemates बिता उनके गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold पूर्वोत्तर शीत to मियामी बीच, with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
The fourth ऋतु, filmed in Italy, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The show returned for a पांचवां ऋतु, at Seaside Heights on January 5, 2012.
The fifth ऋतु finale aired on March 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the श्रेणी होता वापसी for their sixth season.
On August 30, 2012, MTV announced कि the श्रेणी होगा समाप्त बाद the sixth season, which premiered on October 4.
The series finale aired on December 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette, '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes, और scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not residents of the area.
The series garnered रिकार्ड दरजा लिये MTV, making it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever.
The series ' cast have also been credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon and phrases into American popular culture.
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the शैक्षणिक संस्थानों that have had classes or conferences about the show.
In 2010, the cast of जर्सी shore थी नामित on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list, and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in other countries, with दो नियत in the संयुक्त किंगडम ; the खूब ज्ञात Geordie Shore, set in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.
The other is The Valleys, the वेल्श समतुल्य, which is filmed and set in Cardiff.
The only other official remake of the show is Gandía shore, नियत in gandía, स्पेन.
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित सब waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S. Naval vessels.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign अधिकारों लिये exploring, exploiting, conserving, and managing its territory.
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to, और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of, the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes.
The United राज्य कुल territory includes a subset of political divisions.
The U.S. सरकारी is a सरकारी साथ delegated powers under the United States Constitution.
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the संविधान, nor निषिद्ध by it to the राज्य, हैं reserved to the States respectively, or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the मशीने ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 विज्ञान fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी निर्देशित by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Nick Stahl, Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken.
It is the दूसरी sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill John himself as a child, it sends back another Terminator, the t-x, in an attempt to wipe आउट as अनेक प्रतिरोध अधिकारियों as संभावित.
This includes John 's भविष्य बीवी, लकिन नहीं John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet.
जॉन 's जीवन is लगाई in danger when the T-X accidentally finds him.
A cord of लकडी
The cord is a unit of measure of dry volume used in Canada and the United राज्य to माप ईधन और pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of wood that, when `` क्रमित और खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े हैं लकीर, समानांतर, touching and compact ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high, long, और गहन ; or कोई अन्य व्यवस्था of linear measurements that yields the same volume.
The name cord संभवतः आता इससे the use of a cord or string to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit handheld वीडियो खेल यंत्र विकसित and manufactured by Nintendo.
It was released in Japan on, in North अमेरिका in, और in Europe on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game लड़के लकीर, और थी निर्मित by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998, in the form of Game Boy जेब, और खेल लड़के लाइट ( जापानी तभी ), क्रमशः.
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the खेल & देखें श्रेणी introduced in, और it संयुक्त features from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled साथ the पहेली खेल टेट्रिस.
As part of the fourth generation of gaming, the Game Boy competed साथ the Sega Game Gear, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
Despite these other technologically श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the Game Boy was a tremendous success.
The Game Boy and its successor, the खेल लड़के Color, have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide.
Upon its release in the United States, it बेची इसके संपूर्ण शिपमेंट of one million units within weeks.
The World Trade Center is a जटिल of इमारतें अंतर्गत निर्माण in निम्नतर मैनहटन, नई यॉर्क नगर, United States, replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site.
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers, which opened on April 4, 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 हमले of 2001, साथ साथ 7 संसार व्यापार बीच.
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks, and their तबाह were eventually demolished.
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the attacks.
, only one skyscraper has been समाप्त ; the अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित to be completed before 2020.
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the नई जटिल, reaching more than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest भवन in नई यॉर्क नगर on अप्रैल 30, 2012, and is expected to be finished by 2013.
A sixth tower is awaiting पुष्टि.
At the time of their completion, the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ), ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा मीनारें '', यहूद the tallest इमारतें in the संसार.
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade बीच ), 4 wtc, 5 WTC, 6 WTC, and 7 WTC.
All of these buildings were निर्मित between 1975 और 1985.
the लागत लिये the निर्माण was $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ).
the जटिल थी स्तिथ in the heart of New York City 's downtown financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space.
The World Trade Center अनुभवी a आग on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 and a robbery on, 1998.
In 1998, the बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार decided to privatize the World Trade Center, leasing the buildings to a private company to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex, एक into प्रत्येक tower, in a coordinated terrorist attack.
बाद burning for 56 minutes, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ), with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling debris from the towers, combined with fires that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten अन्य विशाल structures in the surrounding area.
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World Trade Center site took आठ महीने.
Over the following years, plans for a rebuilt संसार व्यापार बीच took form.
The first new building at the साईट थी 7 संसार व्यापार Center, which opened in.
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ), established in to oversee the पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम, व्यवस्थित प्रतियोगिताओं to चुनें a साईट plan and memorial design.
Memory Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was selected as the master plan, but this went through substantial परिवर्तन in design.
The new World Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center, three other high-rise office मीनारें, और the नेशनल सितंबर 11 Memorial & Museum.
सैन जिबरील Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains, with Mt. San Gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि और बिग Bear Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain सीमाएँ of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America.
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties.
They derive the नाम अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ due to their East-West orientation, making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains.
Periodic table with इलेक्ट्रॉन शेल
An electron shell may be विचार of as an कक्षा followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the केंद्रक is पुकारा the `` 1 शेल '' ( भी पुकारा `` k shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ), then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ), and so on farther and farther from the nucleus.
the शेल अक्षर K, L, M,..., used in the X-ray notation, are alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can थाम up to दो electrons, the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically आकर्षित to the केंद्रक, an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons.
However, this is not a strict आवश्यकता : अणु may have दो or भी तीन अधूरी outer shells.
( देखिए madelung rule for more details. )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in ये शेल देखिए इलेक्ट्रॉन विन्यास.
The electrons in the outermost occupied शेल ( or शेल ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell.
Each shell consists of one or more subshells, and each subshell consists of एक or more atomic orbitals.
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; नवम्बर 28, 1967 – फ़रवरी 8, 2007 ), ज्ञात by उसके moniker anna Nicole Smith, was an American model, actress, and television personality.
Smith first gained लोकप्रियता in प्लेबॉय, becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
वो modeled for clothing companies, including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped out of ऊँची स्कूल और थी married in 1985.
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul, J. Howard Marshall, 62 years her senior, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money, which she denied.
Following Marshall 's death, Smith began a lengthy legal बैटल over a share of उसके estate.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of federal क्षेत्राधिकार, और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a हॉलीवुड, फ्लोरिडा hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs.
Within the final six months of her life, Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son, Daniel, and the paternity and कस्टडी बैटल over उसके newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of जापानी येन.
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट ``, और यहूद भी minted इससे 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much उच्चतर मान of the yen, they were minted in gold ).
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing आउट of the जल, साथ `` पाँच येन '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of issue, also in kanji, separated by sprouts of a tree.
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries, the कुंजी तत्व of the जापानी first-sector अर्थव्यवस्था.
Around a hole, there is a गियर कि represents industry.
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to कमी अरबी numerals on either face.
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B, hip hop, soul, funk, और new jack swing.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins, rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas, the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while भी enduring a श्रेणी of spats साथ the विधि, प्रत्येक अन्य, and the group 's record label.
Initially, TLC achieved commercial success following the release of उनके डेब्यू एल्बम ooooooohhh...
on the tlc टिप, which sold 6 million copies worldwide.
However, it थी उनके दूसरी एल्बम, CrazySexyCool, that catapulted the group to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group, और आखिरकार बेची 23 million copies worldwide.
Five years later, the group released their third album FanMail, which became the group 's first album to debut at क्रमांक एक और बेची अधिक than 11 लाख copies worldwide.
The subsequent दौरे following FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all time by a female band.
In 2002, लिसा `` बाएँ Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras.
Seven months later, T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D, जिससे बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी, it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the महानतम musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the बैंड संचित टेन शीर्ष ten singles, four number one singles, four multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC was ranked as the सातवाँ most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard.
In 2008, the group was inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the वही पत्रिका, at 56th place.
That year it was also listed as the # 25 R & b/hip-hop कलाकार of the preceding 25 years.
TLC has sold अधिक than 65 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी and they are ranked as the second best selling female group of all time, and the best selling female R & B group of all time.
In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on vh1 's 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक, होने ranked the number one all girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature एनिमेशन और वितरित by वॉल्ट Disney Pictures.
The 37th फिल्मी in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक, it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs, and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy, Bob Tzudiker, and नोनी श्वेत, टार्ज़न सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें of टोनी goldwyn, minnie ड्राइवर, ग्लेन Close, and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 विश्वव्यापी, outgrossing इसके पूर्ववर्तियों Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of its release, its production budget of $ 130 लाख बना it the most expensive animated film ever made, until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was also the first डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता to खोलें at # 1 since Pocahontas.
This was the last major बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी Renaissance.
आयल मंच p-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible platform.
Oil platform mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill wells, to extract and process oil and natural gas, and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore लिये शोधन and marketing.
In many cases, the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as खूब.
Depending on the हालातों, the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor, may consist of an artificial island, or may float.
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical कनेक्शन्स.
These subsea समाधान may consist of एक or अधिक subsea wells, or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells.
Slaughter is the killing of animals, usually that of घरेलू पशुधन for food.
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle, water buffalo ( for beef and veal ), शीप, बकरियों ( लिये मेमने और मटन ), सूअर ( लिये पोर्क ), horses ( for horse meat ), and fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The White हाउस, the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक residence and center of the administration
अंतर्गत the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे, the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President more than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from दफ्तर of an लाज़िम President, the Vice President assumes the office.
The President must be at तनिक 35 सालो of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took प्रभाव on कूच 4, 1789.
For American leaders before this ratification, see President of the महाद्वीपीय Congress.
The list does not include कोई एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is गिने क्रमबद्धता as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम हेनरी हैरिसन, zachary टेलर, वारेन G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was inaugurated in 1789 after a सर्वसम्मत vote of the चुनावी कॉलेज.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the तभी अध्यक्ष to serve अधिक than दो शर्तें, and a constitutional amendment, affecting presidents after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, and the current अध्यक्ष, Barack Obama, is the first president of African descent.
Several firearms with detachable suppressors, from top to bottom : An uzi, an ar-15, a heckler & koch खासियत रणनीतिक, A Beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
Bolt action rimfire rifle साथ suppressor
AWM-F sniper राइफल साथ attached suppressor.
A suppressor, sound suppressor, or sound मॉडरेटर, is a यंत्र संलग्न to or भाग of the बैरल of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise, and usually the amount of muzzle flash, generated by firing the weapon.
A suppressor can be used both with a firearm और साथ संपीडित air gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, इस पद is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile, especially one moving faster than the speed of sound, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. greater than 300 meters ) can lessen, or retard, the report at the moment of प्रभाव, और बनाएँ the छाप of खामोशी निकट the निशाना.
The noise सुना निकट the muzzle as a प्रक्षेप्य leaves the barrel, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder साथ आतंरिक mechanisms to reduce the ध्वनि of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
Early suppressors were created around the शुरूआत of the 20th century by several inventors.
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim, hiram पर्सी 's पिता, और the आविष्कारक of the Maxim Machine Gun ), is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave his device the trademarked नाम कहावत Silencer.
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century, using many of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use, although it has since fallen out of favor with some, especially among the firearms उद्योग, होने replaced साथ the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor, because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging.
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier term, silencer.
In U.S. law, the शर्तें `` firearm मफलर '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United राज्य दफ्तर of रणनीतिक सेवाएं, जो favored the newly designed High Standard HDM.22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II.
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' डोनोवन demonstrated the पिस्टल लिये अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt at the White House.
according to oss शोध मुख्य Stanley Lovell, Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished his message, Donovan turned his back and fired टेन गोलियाँ into a sandbag he था brought साथ उसे, घोषित कया he था किया और handed the smoking gun to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special Operations कार्यपालिका ) welrod हत्या pistol with an integral suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War.
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, and singer whose career spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude, and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls, winning Emmy Awards for both roles.
A stage actress both before and after her television success, वो जीती the टोनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शित Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film आधारित on the tekken वीडियो खेल श्रेणी, उत्पादित by डिजिटल Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment.
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on July 26, 2011, and in Australia on July 27, 2011 in a special विशेष one-off स्क्रीनिंग.
It was released on September 3, 2011 in जापानी.
The film was released on blu-ray डिस्क on नवम्बर 22, 2011 for USA, and December 1, 2011 for Japan.
This film was also released on DVD on नवम्बर 22, 2011 ( 2d संस्करण तभी ).
The film was additionally included with the प्लेस्टेशन 3 खेल, tekken संकर, और the Nintendo 3DS title, Tekken 3D : Prime Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary पड़ोस वकालत समूह, see neighborhood association.
In the United States, a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing, managing, and selling of homes और लोट in a आवासीय subdivision.
It grants the developer privileged मतदान अधिकारों in शासी the संघ, जबकि allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization, typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots.
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a कंडीशन of खरीदें ; a खरीदार is n't given an option to reject it.
Most homeowner associations are incorporated, and हैं विषय to राज्य statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations.
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal, and mainly takes the form of कानून जिससे हैं असंगत इससे राज्य to state.
Some states, such as Florida and California, have a large body of homeowner संघ विधि, और कुछ राज्य, ऐसे as Massachusetts, have virtually no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ), a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family घरों, condominiums, और सहकारी अपार्टमेंट.
Since 1964, homeowner एसोसिएशन have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations संस्थान व्यापार संघ अनुमानित कि HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose, ranging इससे दिखाएँ breeds साथ long, flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science.
From ca. 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532, selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic गिनी सूअर, जिससे रूप the आधार लिये कुछ of the आधुनिक domestic breeds.
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food, and efforts at improving the गिनी सुअर as a खाना सोर्स continue to the modern era.
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century, the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the विकास of appealing pets.
To इस समाप्त, विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी breeding organizations were founded by fanciers.
The American Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association, is the शासी देह in the संयुक्त States and Canada.
the अंग्रेजों cavy परिषद governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New जीलैंड ( New Zealand Cavy Club ).
Each क्लबों publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though there are many breeds of Guinea pig, only a few breeds हैं commonly found on the show table as pets.
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be सुखद पालतु regardless of कैसा well they meet the breed standard of perfection.
The छोटी बाल, abyssinian, peruvian और sheltie ( उर्फ Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets, and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs.
In addition to their standard form, nearly सब breeds आइये in a Satin variant.
Satins, due to उनके hollow hair shafts, possess coats of a special gloss and shine.
However, there is growing प्रमाण कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems, including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease.
Showing Satin विसंगतियाँ is निषिद्ध by कुछ cavy प्रजनक ' associations because of animal welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should be rounded, साथ विशाल eyes and large, smooth ears.
The body should be दमदार और of compact build.
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly पारिभाषित और thorough from root to tip.
These standards are best met by long established, commonly bred breeds, as उनके प्रजनक have था पर्याप्त समय और पशु to effectively breed for these qualities.
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the चिकना coated breeds, जिससे have था खूब established, separate breeding lines for different colours.
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children बगैर चार्ज सशुल्क लिये, in पूरे or in भाग, by taxation.
The term may also refer to संस्थानों of post-secondary education funded, in whole or in part, and overseen by government.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose अनुक्रम is नियंत्रित by the अनुक्रम of मेसेंजर rna molecules.
This is जरूरी by सब जीना cells and associated viruses.
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic एसिड और the यूनानी सोम, अर्थ `` देह '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
Ribosomes कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ in the अनुक्रम specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules.
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA, जबकि the विशाल subunit joins अमीनो acids to form a polypeptide chain.
प्रत्येक subunit is रचित of एक or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins.
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) जंजीरों of a similar sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA कड़ी और उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट लिये determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein.
Amino acids are selected, collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ), which enter one part of the ribosome और bind to the मेसेंजर RNA chain.
The attached amino acids are then linked together by another भाग of the राइबोसोम.
Once the protein is produced, it can then 'fold ' to उपज a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक three-dimensional structure.
A ribosome is made from complexes of rnas and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein.
Each राइबोसोम is विभाजित into दो subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern, while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids.
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA अणु, ये two subunits split apart.
Ribosomes are ribozymes, because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids साथ is performed by the ribosomal rna.
Ribosomes from bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size, sequence, ढांचा, और the अनुपात of प्रोटीन to rna.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to मार जीवाणु by inhibiting उनके ribosomes, while leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than one ribosome may मूव साथ a सिंगल mrna chain at one time, each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many features of those in जीवाणु, reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, Christian de Duve, and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, in 1974, for the डिस्कवरी of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman रामकृष्णन, थामस A. steitz और एडीए E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
The सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
The light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
ये प्रतिक्रियाएँ take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs तभी जब लाइट is available.
Plants do not carry out the calvin साईकिल by night.
They, instead, release sucrose into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके मंड reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
In गणित, a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the square of an integer ; in other words, it is the product of some integer with itself.
For example, 9 is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक, since it can be written as.
The usual notation for the formula for the वर्गाकार of a क्रमांक is नहीं the product, but the equivalent exponentiation, usually pronounced as `` squared ''.
The name square number comes from the name of the आकार ; देखिए नीचे.
वर्गाकार संख्याएँ are non-negative.
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) क्रमांक is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक, is कि इसके वर्गाकार roots are again integers.
For example, = ±3, so 9 is a square number.
A positive integer that has no perfect square divisors मगर 1 is पुकारा square-free.
For a non-negative integer, the th वर्गाकार क्रमांक is, साथ होने the zeroth square.
The concept of square can be extended to some other क्रमांक प्रणालियों.
If तर्कसंगत संख्याएँ हैं शामिल, तब a वर्गाकार is the ratio of two square integers, and, conversely, the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting with 1, there are square numbers up to and including, where the अभिव्यक्ति represents the मंजिल of the क्रमांक.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
the era देखी the पतन of the federalist पार्टी और an समाप्त to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System.
President James मुनरो endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in making his nominations, with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics.
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the federalist पार्टी as अमेरिका began to develop after the War of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth और समृद्धि बाद the युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन, इस era भी marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States.
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay, protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the पहला वित्तीय संकट.
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony क्युकी of the political turmoil, economic factors caused animosity between the North and South.
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with विडंबना or skepticism, as the इतिहास of the era थी one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive, especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party.
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the Boston Federalist समाचारपत्र, columbian centinel, on जुलाई 12, 1817, following मुनरो 's विज़िट to Boston, Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America.
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' hamm ( born कूच 17, 1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer player.
hamm निभाई अनेक सालो as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, more than कोई अन्य खिलाड़ी, पुरूष or मादा, in the history of soccer and is the third most capped female player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that award was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ), and is सूचीबद्ध as एक of फीफा 's 125 बेहतरीन living players ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and टेक्सास खेल हॉल of Fame.
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to जीतना in सॉकर और जीवन और appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team.
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm, `` शायद the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण खिलाड़ी of the पिछला 15 सालो. ''
Hamm takes a corner kick.
the नई यॉर्क रेड bulls is an अमरीकी पेशेवर soccer team based in Harrison, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The team competes in the Eastern सम्मेलन of प्रमुख लीग Soccer ( MLS ).
It is one of the ten चार्टर क्लब of mls, having competed in the league since its inception.
the टोली थी a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), but has gone through several name changes.
The टोली थी originally ज्ञात as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 ऋतु through the 2005 ऋतु, the team was known as the MetroStars.
On March 9, 2006, the team was sold to Red Bull GmbH, leading to the टोली 's वर्तमान name.
They हैं the तभी असली MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season, playoffs, and knockout competition ) since inception.
The team 's best result in the MLS was the mls कप फाइनल in 2008.
In the US Open कप, the metrostars पहुँचे तीन semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), before reaching their first final in 2003, losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On August 26, 2000, the Metros ' Clint Mathis set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a खेल विरूद्ध the डलास बर्न.
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese, Tim Howard, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, Alexi Lalas, Clint Mathis, Jozy Altidore, Michael Bradley, Claudio Reyna, Eddie Pope, Roberto Donadoni, Lothar Matthäus, Adolfo Valencia, Youri Djorkaeff, Amado Guevara, Juan Pablo Ángel, thierry हेनरी, juninho pernambucano, जन गुन्नार Solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also had well-known coaches, including कार्लोस queiroz, कार्लोस Alberto Parreira, Bora Milutinović, Bob Bradley, Mo Johnston, Bruce Arena and Hans Backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, and buddhism हैं एक, a पेंटिंग in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a river stream, 12th century, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world, or in many countries, is difficult due to definitional मुद्दे as खूब as व्यावहारिक समस्याएं of enumeration.
To begin with, the religious beliefs, practices, and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism, the Chinese folk religion, daoism, shinto, और कोरियाई shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations, or observe a definite अनुष्ठान of adherence ऐसे as taking Refuge, making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners.
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as चीन or उत्तर कोरियाई ) to धर्म generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may प्रोत्साहित the under-reporting or non-reporting of धार्मिक adherence, resulting in आधिकारिक योग that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries.
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one अरब, लकिन क्लस्टर nearer to the first figure.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a फिगर of 397 million.
By major branches, the संख्याएँ हैं as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana buddhism, सहित ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism, साथ no कम than 185 million adherents, and possibly several times that many ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
इस is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, and Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada buddhism, with no fewer than 125 million adherents.
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia, थाईलैंड, लाओस, श्री लंका, and Burma.
( 3 ) वज्रयान buddhism, with approximately 20 million adherents.
This रूप predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions, as well as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and भूटान, और विभिन्न territories भीतर कया is अभी पश्चिमी चीन, Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g. Kalmykia, Buryatia ), India ( e.g. Ladakh, Sikkim ), and Nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
Vajrayana, also known as Tibetan Buddhism, is often conflated with तांत्रिक buddhism, लकिन इस is imprecise, as shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra.
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, बर्मा, Bhutan, and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
depending on कैसा एक calculates चाइनीज और other East Asian adherents, this figure might expand to include several more countries.
In addition, Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and Bhutan, and receives prominent जिक्र in the constitutions of थाईलैंड और श्री Lanka.
In उत्तरी इण्डिया और नेपाल, the land where Buddhism was born, the religion severely declined during the first millennium.
Whether this decline was due to the इस्लामी conquest of northern India, or to other factors, remains controversial.
देखिए the article Decline of Buddhism in India.
James Butler Hickok ( May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), better known as Wild Bill Hickok, थी a लोक नायिका of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter and स्काउट, साथ साथ उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a lawman, provided the basis for his fame, although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized.
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois, Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice, first working as a stagecoach driver, पहले he became a lawman in the frontier territories of कान्सास और नेब्रास्का.
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War, and gained publicity बाद the युद्ध as a स्काउट, marksman, actor, and professional gambler.
Between his law-enforcement कर्तव्य और gambling, which easily overlapped, Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts.
He was shot and killed while playing पोकर in the nuttal & मन 's Saloon in Deadwood, Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ).
कलाकार 's धारणा of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars.
The rover landed on मंगल in August 2012.
A Mars rover is an स्वचालित मोटर गाडी which propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars after landing.
रोवर्स have अनेक लाभ over stationary landers : वे जाँचें more territory, they can be directed to interesting features, they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control.
There have been four कामयाब robotically operated Mars rovers.
The Jet नोदन प्रयोगशाला प्रबंधित the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover.
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit, और, as भाग of the मंगल विज्ञान प्रयोगशाला मिशन, the जिज्ञासा रोवर.
A financial ऑडिट, or अधिक accurately, an ऑडिट of वित्तीय कथन, is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity, with a view to express an audit opinion.
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance, लकिन नहीं निरपेक्ष परख, कि the वित्तीय statements are presented fairly, in all material respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
The purpose of an audit is provide and उद्देश्य स्वतंत्र परिक्षा of the वित्तीय कथन, जिससे increases the मान and credibility of the financial statements produced by management, thus increase user confidence in the financial statement, reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements.
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting.
The वित्तीय ऑडिट is एक of many assurance functions provided by accounting firms.
Many संगठन separately employ or hire internal auditors, who do not attest to financial reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization.
External auditors may choose to प्लेस सीमित रिलायंस on the work of internal auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an संगठन, इसलिए होता संभावित to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auditing और परख मानकों फलक ( iaasb ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process.
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the isa or a लोकल variation of the ISA.
Dollar coins have been minted in the संयुक्त States in gold, silver, and base metal versions.
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ a फेस मान of एक डालर, हालांकि purists जिद that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal.
Silver dollars, the first dollar coin issue, यहूद minted beginning in 1794.
Gold dollars and gold-colored डॉलर have भी been produced by the United States.
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are प्रायः referred to as `` सुनहरी डॉलर ''.
In modern times, dollar coins have not been very लोकप्रिय in the United States.
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use, सबसे अमेरिकी फिलहाल उपयोग the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins.
In straight and level flight लिफ्ट ( l ) equals weight ( W ).
In a banked turn of 60°, lift equals double the weight ( L=2W ).
The pilot experiences 2g and a doubled वज़न.
The steeper the bank, the greater the g-forces.
इस top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary मामला the pythagorean प्रमेय yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g from गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a term for accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
It is not a force, per se, लकिन a फ़ोर्स per unit mass.
Since such a force is perceived as a वज़न, कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` weight per unit mass '' ( see the synonym specific weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's द्रव्यमान, और ( सहेजें लिये निश्चित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational शक्तियां एक्टिंग on an object free to move.
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity हैं termed उचित accelerations, and it is only these that are measured in g-force units.
They cause तनावों और strains on objects.
Because of these strains, विशाल g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force, even though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a मानक गम्भीरता.
Thus, the standard गुरुत्वाकर्षक acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the धरती 's सतह is caused by mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted in the upward direction by the ground, keeping the object from going into free-fall.
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition, which is the path कि the ऑब्जेक्ट होता follow जब गिरना freely toward the धरती 's center.
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the धरती 's बीच ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
These are उदाहरण of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is produced, is synonymous साथ weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at right angles to them, proper and coordinate accelerations हैं the वही, और कोई निर्देशांक acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
An example यहाँ is a प्रक्षेपास्त्र in free space, in which simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines, and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur holding a lituus, the curved wand प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a प्रतीक of augury on Roman coins
the augur थी a पुजारी and official in the classical world, especially ancient Rome and Etruria.
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they are उड़ती in समूह or अलोन, कया noises वे मेक as they fly, direction of flight and what kind of birds they are.
This थी ज्ञात as `` taking the auspices. ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to कोई प्रमुख undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of war, commerce, and religion.
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was संस्थापित तभी बाद लेने the auspices, कि सबकुछ in युद्ध और in सलाम, at घर और विदेश, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent जातियाँ in southeastern Michigan.
It is the दूसरी largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan.
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is भी पूर्वोत्तर of शहर Ann Arbor.
farmington पहाड़ियाँ consistently बाँधने as one of the safest cities in the United States, as well as in the state of Michigan.
In 2010, the क्षेत्रफल क्रमित as the 30th safest city in America.
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses, Farmington और farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं often thought of as the same community.
Features of the जातियाँ शामिल a recently संवर शहर, boutiques, a vintage cinema, numerous restaurants, exotic car dealerships, art galleries, and public parks including Heritage Park.
There are several historical sites सहित the longacre हाउस और the Governor Warner Mansion.
Both cities हैं परोसा by Farmington Public Schools.
farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves as a major business center for the greater Detroit area.
Present-day impression of a लेट कांस्य आयु seal
Town seal ( मेट्रिक्स ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax, clay, पेपर, or कुछ अन्य मीडियम, including an embossment on paper, and is also the impression thus made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper for one such as a आधुनिक लिफाफा, or the कवर of a container or package holding valuables or other objects.
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould, with the final image represented on the device for बनाना the छाप by a mirror-image डिज़ाइन, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर छाप ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high parts of the matrix touch, the seal is ज्ञात as a शुष्क मुहर ; in सब अन्य मामले a द्रव or liquified मीडियम ( ऐसे as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another color than the paper.
For legal उद्देश्य, the परिभाषा of a मुहर may be विस्तारित to include rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the United States, the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the मुहर डिज़ाइन ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ), जिससे may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings, on flags, or on official letterheads.
यूँ, लिये उदाहरण, the ग्रेट मुहर of the United States, among other uses, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags.
In Europe, although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals, the मुहर डिज़ाइन in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
The study of seals is ज्ञात as sigillography or sphragistics.
groundhog दिन ( पेन्सिलवेनिया German : Grundsaudaag, Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges इससे इसके burrow on इस दिन, तब वसन्त होगा आइये जल्दी ; if it is सनी, the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow, and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks.
Modern customs of the अवकाश involve जश्न जहाँ early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow.
In southeastern Pennsylvania, Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge, सोशल कार्यक्रम in जिससे खाना is परोसा, भाषणों are made, and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event, and those जो बोलो अंग्रेज़ी अदा a दंड, प्रायः in the रूप of a निकल, dime, or quarter per word spoken, with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
the largest groundhog दिन celebration is held in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
groundhog दिन, already a widely पहचाना और लोकप्रिय परंपरा, प्राप्त widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day, which was set in Punxsutawney, PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock, IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil.
High resolution image of tampa खाड़ी region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ), with warm and humid summers with बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों साथ जमने temperatures occurring every 2–3 years.
The area experiences a significant summer wet ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the सालाना वर्षण falls in the months of June through September.
The area is listed by the United राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10, जिससे is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown.
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 °F ( 18 और 35 °c ) साल round.
Though known for hot summers, Tampa 's आधिकारिक ऊँची रै never पहुँचे 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. Petersburg 's all-time रिकार्ड high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller प्रायद्वीप jutting आउट into Tampa Bay.
This proximity to large bodies of जल दोनो नरमपंथियों temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere.
In सामान्य, the लोकल समुदायों farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges, both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year.
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum, showing विभिन्न गुण आरपार the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a अलग अर्थ, और is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various भाग of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by उसके आद्याक्षर, fdr, थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A प्रबल नेता of the लोकतांत्रिक Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932, as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert हूवर in नवम्बर 1932, at the गहराई of the ग्रेट अवसाद.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a नवीकरण of the नेशनल spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed to उपज राहत ( सरकारी कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ), रिकवरी ( आर्थिक विकास ), और सुधार ( through विनियमन of वॉल गली, बैंको and transportation ).
The अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his पैकिंग the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, मगर लिये the विनियमन of वॉल Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several छोटी कार्यक्रम, प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong diplomatic और वित्तीय support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, जबकि बाकी officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे would supply munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease aid to the देशों लड़ विरूद्ध Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very दमदार नेशनल support, he बना युद्ध on जापानी और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the अक्ष Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb.
in 1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers, और 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not तभी दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ, बिग city machines, white ethnics, African Americans and rural white Southerners.
He भी बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ साथ Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his ideological स्थिति as `` a little left of center. ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of members of both कक्षों of a bicameral विधानमंडल.
In other contexts, it refers to a कमेटी साथ members from more than one organization.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, it is इसलिए exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक अनुक्रम अपराधों, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at एक समय माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the terms of which are stipulated in the नेवाडा संशोधित statutes.
Only 8 counties currently contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other counties theoretically allow वेश्यालय prostitution, but some of these counties currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and जीना बंद of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of छह सितारों ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames लिये the ध्वज शामिल the `` सितारों and Stripes '', `` Old Glory ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal संघ of राज्य comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories.
The राज्य और territories हैं further subdivided into districts and so on.
Congressional districts for the 113th संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, starting in 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
2000 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, इससे 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional districts for representation in the United States House of Representatives.
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are संकल्पित बाद प्रत्येक census, although in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This list includes the 435 current and over 200 obsolete जिले.
For example, चूंकि the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, Nebraska has had three districts, but it used to have as many as six.
In the पहला दशक of the twenty-first century, Texas had 32 districts, but has since added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census.
Other states have lost districts since the number of congressional seats has महरूम नियत at 435 by statute.
Also included here are non-voting delegations : छह वर्तमान और four obsolete.
The boundaries of districts often shift with each redistricting.
Over time, the region and demographics represented in a district can change substantially.
furthermore, जिले sometimes retain the same boundaries while changing their district numbers.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड producer, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola, कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` एक मीठी दिन ``, a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन, खर्च a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings और धीरे traversed into हिप hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which समय कैरी था अलग from Mottola.
Carey left कोलंबिया in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized लिये कठोर थकावट.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million डालर अनुबंध सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, और बाद an unsuccessful काल, returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी बाद named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold more than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार Music Awards.
Carey was भी named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
साथ the रिलीज of `` टच my देह `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
aside इससे उसके वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, Carey has won five Grammy Awards, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a cloud is a visible द्रव्यमान of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
These निलंबित अणु are also known as aerosols.
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere are studied in the cloud भौतिकी शाखा of meteorology.
Two processes, possibly acting together, can lead to air becoming saturated ; cooling the air or adding water vapor to the air.
In general, precipitation will fall to the surface ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga, जिससे evaporates before reaching the surface.
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact बादल in उनके सबसे मौलिक फ़ॉर्म can दिखाएँ free-convective upward growth like cumulus, appear in non-convective layered sheets such as stratus, or take the form of thin fibrous wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these मौलिक फ़ॉर्म or to specify middle or high altitude ranges.
These शामिल strato- लिये कम बादल साथ सीमित संवहन कि रूप ज़्यादातर in uneven परतों, cumulo- लिये जटिल highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to heavy precipitation, alto- for middle clouds, and cirro- for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure.
Whether or not a cloud is low, middle, or high level depends on how far above the मैदान इसके आधार फ़ॉर्म.
Cloud types with significant vertical extent can रूप in the कम or मध्य ऊँचाई सीमाएँ depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the क्षोभमण्डल have लैटिन names due to the popular adaptation of Luke Howard 's cloud categorization system, which began to spread in popularity during December 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled observation समय आधारित on the ऊँचाई और शारीरिक appearance of the clouds.
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's troposphere, there are occasions when clouds in the stratosphere और mesosphere can be observed.
These three main layers of the atmosphere where बादल may be देखी हैं collectively known as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere, which together make up the heterosphere कि marks the transition to outer space.
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons within the Solar System, but, due to उनके अलग तापमान characteristics, they are composed of other substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas within the Houston–Sugar land–baytown महानगर area.
As of the 2010 census, the जनसांख्यिकी थी 291,309.
Its काउंटी सीट is Galveston.
League City is the largest city in Galveston County in terms of जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000 और 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city.
Galveston County थी founded in 1838.
nassau
freeport, Bahamas
This is a list of cities in the Bahamas.
The following table lists the city or कस्बा नाम, the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक, the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 census, an estimate of the population as of 2009, and the island name.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference, is the oldest Division I college athletic सम्मेलन in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Its बारह सदस्य संस्थानों ( जिससे हैं primarily फ्लैगशिप शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in उनके संबंधित राज्य, well-regarded academically, and with relatively large student enrollment ) are located primarily in the Midwest, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
the सम्मेलन competes in the ncaa 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ), formerly known as Division I-A, the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport.
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or, in two cases, उनके जनक विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों ) भी are members of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the Big Ten actually consists of 12 schools, following the जोड of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will expand to 14 members with the additions of the University of Maryland, College Park and rutgers, the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of New Jersey.
It is not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference, which has only ten स्कूलों और represents a different region of the country.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a pot स्टिल आसवन प्रक्रम at a single distillery, with malted barley as the only grain ingredient.
As with any Scotch whisky, a single malt Scotch must be आसुत in स्कॉटलैंड और matured in ओक casks in Scotland for at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ).
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is distilled from a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of grains can be malted ( for example, barley, rye and wheat are all grains which can be malted ) ; however, in the मामला of सिंगल malt स्कॉच, जौ is always the only grain used.
`` Single '' indicates that all the malts in the बोतल आइये from a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt व्हिस्की इससे multiple distilleries are called `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of व्हिस्की कि contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky, but this is no longer the case.
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009, a `` blended malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies, not a मिश्रण of malted जौ व्हिस्की और non-barley व्हिस्की ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a bottle of single malt स्कॉच is the number of years the whisky spent maturing in cask.
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the age statement reflects the आयु of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object औकात of fused-ensemble timbres, लिये उदाहरण, the beautiful 'northern lights ' chord..., in a very interesting distribution of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to more traditional musical बनावट, ध्वनि द्रव्यमान संयोजन `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in preference for texture, timbre, and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may create or be used with sound mass शामिल विस्तारित तकनीकों ऐसे as मूक पीतल or strings, flutter tonguing, wide vibrato, extreme ranges, and glissandos.
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb, Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus ( 1961 ), Norma beecroft 's इससे सपनो of पीतल लिये chorus ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy Van de Vate.
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental क्लस्टर, choral वाक, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where chaos is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of सब सात टीप of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A बाद उदाहरण is the तीसरा गति of रुथ क्रॉफर्ड seeger 's स्ट्रिंग Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example.
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins साथ debussy और edgard varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता fuse into one ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties और sixties ऐसे as krzysztof penderecki 's threnody to the पीड़ितों of हिरोशिमा ( 1959 ) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers साथ works using this technique include Henryk Górecki, Karel Husa, Witold Lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
Sound mass techniques also appear in the music of जार्ज crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a lecture on रैखिक बीजगणित at the Helsinki University of Technology
Pupils in rural सूडान, 2002
A student is a learner, or किसी जो attends an educational institution.
In some nations, the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend university, while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in अंग्रेज़ी ( or an समतुल्य in अन्य भाषाएं ), हालांकि in the संयुक्त राज्य a व्यक्ति enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student.
In its widest use, student is used for anyone who is learning.
Australia is a continent comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Tasmania, New Guinea, Seram, possibly Timor, and neighbouring islands.
The continent is sometimes ज्ञात in तकनीकी contexts by the names sahul, Australinea or Meganesia, to distinguish it from the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the seven traditional continents in the English conception.
New Zealand is not part of the continent of Australia, लकिन of the पृथक, submerged continent of Zealandia.
Zealandia and Australia are both part of the wider regions known as australasia और महासागरीय.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas which divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between mainland ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई गिनी, और बास जलसन्धि between mainland Australia and Tasmania.
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice age, सहित the पिछला glacial maximum about 18,000 BC, they were connected by dry land.
During the past ten thousand years, rising sea levels overflowed the lowlands and separated the continent into आज 's low-lying arid to semi-arid मेनलैंड and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf, so the now-separate islands are considered part of the महाद्वीप.
Due to the spread of animals, fungi and plants across the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as big as the संसार 's second-smallest country, Monaco.
Historically its reservoirs were important components of the नगर 's water supply.
पर्यावरणीय मुद्दे in नई यॉर्क नगर हैं प्रभावित by the city 's size, density, abundant public transportation infrastructure, and location at the mouth of the Hudson River.
New York 's population घनत्व रै पर्यावरणीय pros and cons.
It facilitates the उच्चतम द्रव्यमान पारगमन उपयोग in the United States, but also concentrates pollution.
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s, and greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the national average, at 7.1 मीट्रिक टन प्रति व्यक्ति प्रति साल, नीचे सैन फ्रांसिस्को, at 11.2 metric tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
New York City accounts for only 1 % of United States greenhouse gas emissions जबकि आवास 2.7 % of its population.
In September 2012, New York was named the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent शहरों in the संयुक्त States.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia, with an estimated 2011 population of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, home to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त States.
Atlanta is the county seat of fulton काउंटी, और a छोटी portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two रेलरोड लाइनों, और the नगर रोज़ इससे the ashes of the Civil War to become a national center of commerce.
In the decades following the Civil अधिकारों Movement, during which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' for the progressive views of its citizens and leaders, Atlanta attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, via राजमार्ग, रेलरोड, और air, with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998.
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) संसार नगर, '' and, with a gross domestic product of US $ 270 billion, Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse, dominant sectors include logistics, professional and business services, media operations, government administration, और उच्चतर शिक्षा.
Topographically, Atlanta is चिह्नित by रोलिंग hills and dense tree coverage.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's पड़ोस, initially spurred by the 1996 ओलंपिक, has intensified in the 21st century, altering the city 's demographics, politics, and culture.
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the catechetical गिल्ड शैक्षणिक Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty, subversion, or देशद्रोह बगैर proper regard for evidence.
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative techniques, विशेषकर in order to restrict dissent or political criticism. ''
The पद रै इसके origins in the काल in the संयुक्त राज्य ज्ञात as the दूसरी रेड scare, lasting roughly from 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy of विस्कॉन्सिन, `` mccarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader अर्थ, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated आरोपों, as खूब as demagogic attacks on the character or patriotism of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive investigations और questioning पहले सरकारी or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The primary targets of such suspicions were government employees, those in the entertainment उद्योग, शिक्षक और संघ कार्यकर्ताओं.
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, and the level of threat posed by a person 's real or supposed वामपंथी एसोसिएशन or मान्यताओं थी प्रायः greatly अतिरंजित.
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or विनाश of उनके करियर ; कुछ even suffered imprisonment.
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned, laws that would be declared unconstitutional, dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal प्रक्रियाओं कि होता आइये into general disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches, investigations, and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the हॉलीवुड ब्लैकलिस्ट, संबद्ध साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( huac ) ; और the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
mccarthyism थी a फैली सोशल और सांस्कृतिक घटना that affected all levels of society and was the source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States.
नेपोलियन is a fictional अक्षर और the main antagonist in George Orwell 's Animal Farm.
While he is at first a common farm pig, he gets rid of Snowball, another सुअर जिससे साझा the power.
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising विरूद्ध उनके मास्टर्स to आखिरकार become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
NEPTUNE लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to समंदर विज्ञान.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out उनके शोध, जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s, initially the प्रभाग 's उच्चतम trim लकीर लकिन, starting in 1955, the lowest trim line.
In the 1960s, the name was transferred to चकमा 's mid-size प्रविष्टि.
ARM9 is an ARM वास्तुकला 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political जातियाँ संस्थापित लिये the आम शुभ.
Historically, it has sometimes been synonymous with `` गणतंत्र ``.
More recently it रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal associations of some sovereign nations.
Most notably, the Commonwealth of Nations, an association primarily of former members of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, is प्रायः referred to as बस `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four यात्री airliners यहूद hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें, क्रमशः, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल, as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States विभाग of रक्षा ), अग्रणी to a आंशिक पतन in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., लकिन क्रैश into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
Suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially denied any involvement, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी लिये the हमले.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited u.S. support of इसराईल, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism विधान और विस्तारित विधि enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture for years, bin लादेन थी स्तिथ and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in may 2002, और the प्रस्तुतीकरण was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, सहित the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the One World व्यापार बीच is अपेक्षित to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater Lake नेशनल पार्क is a संयुक्त States National Park located in southern Oregon.
स्थापित in 1902, crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest national park in the United States and the only one in the state of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake, a remnant of a destroyed volcano, Mount Mazama, and the surrounding hills and forests.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, which makes it the deepest lake in the United States, the दूसरी deepest in North America and the ninth deepest in the world.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world, but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica, which resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ, और the हाल रपट of a अधिकतम गहराई for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, when comparing its average depth of to the औसत depth of other deep lakes, Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world.
The impressive औसत गहराई of इस volcanic झील is due to the nearly सममित deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range.
the caldera रिम ranges in elevation from.
The United राज्य geological सर्वेक्षण benchmarked elevation of the lake surface itself is.
This National Park encompasses.
Crater Lake has no स्ट्रीम बहती into or out of it.
All water that enters the lake is eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct precipitation in the रूप of हिम और बरसात.
The Supreme Court of the United States is the उच्चतम अदालत in the United States.
It has परम ( और largely विवेकाधीन ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state court cases involving issues of federal law, and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington, D.C., consists of a मुख्य इंसाफ और आठ संबद्ध justices जो हैं मनोनीत by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate.
Once appointed, justices have life tenure जबतक वे resign, retire, or are removed after impeachment.
Conroe is the seat of Montgomery County and falls within the महानगर area.
It is स्तिथ परिचय उत्तर of Houston.
As of July 2011, the नगर जनसांख्यिकी was 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint गति, जिससे adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421.
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon : an खाता लिखा by the हाथ of mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and also according to the book 's narrative, the Book of Mormon was originally लिखा in वरना unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book, a man named Moroni, buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to धरती in 1827 as an देवदूत, revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as evidence of the restoration of Christ 's true church in the latter days.
the किताब of mormon रै a क्रमांक of असली और distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam and Eve, the nature of the Atonement, eschatology, redemption from physical and spiritual death, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal event of the book is an रूप of Jesus Christ to the Americas shortly after his resurrection.
The किताब of mormon is the earliest of the अद्वितीय कृतियाँ of the Latter Day Saint movement, the denominations of which typically regard the text not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled after the individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक और, in सबसे संस्करण, divided into chapters and verses.
It is written in English, very similar to the Early Modern English linguistic style of the King James Version of the Bible, and रै चूंकि महरूम fully or partially अनूदित into 108 भाषाएं.
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or आयोजिक रेट ) is, in सबसे militaries, कोई रैंक नीचे that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can also be समावेशी of non-commissioned officers.
In most cases, enlisted service personnel perform jobs specific to their own occupational specialty, as opposed to the अधिक generalized कमांड जिम्मेदारियों of commissioned officers.
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug म्यूज़िक, inc.
1908 poster विज्ञापन gaumont 's sound films.
The Chronomégaphone, designed लिये विशाल हॉल, employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound.
A sound film is a motion picture with synchronized sound, or sound technologically coupled to चित्र, as opposed to a मूक फिल्मी.
The first known public exhibition of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900, but decades होता pass पहले ध्वनि गति तस्वीरें were made commercially practical.
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with the early sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, और प्रवर्धन और recording quality were also inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the first commercial screening of short गति तस्वीरें using the प्रौद्योगिकी, जिससे took प्लेस in 1923.
the प्राथमिक steps in the commercialization of sound cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s.
At first, the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking तस्वीरें '', or `` टॉकीज़ '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound included only music and effects.
The first feature film originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie was The Jazz Singer, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it was made with Vitaphone, the अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc technology.
Sound-on-film, however, होता जल्द become the standard for talking pictures.
By the early 1930s, the talkies were a global phenomenon.
In the United States, they helped सुरक्षित हॉलीवुड 's स्थिति as एक of the world 's most powerful cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the नई विकास थी treated साथ suspicion by अनेक filmmakers and critics, who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In Japan, where the popular film tradition integrated silent movie and live गायन प्रदर्शन, talking तस्वीरें were slow to take root.
In India, sound was the transformative element that led to the rapid expansion of the स्वदेश 's फिल्मी industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s.
African people हैं natives or निवासियों of Africa and people of African descent.
The Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an annual series of awards nights celebrating the Australian music industry, put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular पुरस्कार ( ये हैं कया is प्रायः होने referred to as `` the aria पुरस्कार '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), Lifetime Achievement Awards and ARIA Hall of Fame – held separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, ARIA introduced पब्लिक voted पुरस्कार लिये the first time.
Winning, or even being nominated for, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005, for example, after Ben Lee won three awards, his album Awake Is the New नींद jumped from No. 31 to No. 5 in the ARIA Charts, its highest position.
For-profit education ( also known as the education services industry or मालिकाना शिक्षा ) refers to educational institutions operated by private, profit -seeking businesses.
There are three प्रकार of for-profit schools.
One type is known as an educational management organization ( EMO ), and these are प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक institutions.
EMOs work with school districts or charter स्कूलों, using पब्लिक निधि to वित्त परिचालन.
the बहुमत of for-profit स्कूलों in the k–12 सेक्टर in अमेरिका फलन as emos, और have grown in क्रमांक in the mid-2000s.
The other major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions which operate as businesses, receiving शुल्क इससे प्रत्येक छात्र वे enroll.
A third type of for-profit स्कूलों, जिससे is कम प्रचलित in the United States, are K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
EMOs function differently from charter schools created in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; most charter schools are mission-oriented, जबकि emos और अन्य for-profit संस्थानों are market-oriented.
While supporters argue that the profit motive encourages दक्षता, इस व्यवस्था रै भी drawn controversy and criticism.
Kevin Carey, director of the शिक्षा नीति कार्यक्रम of the नई अमरीकी न्यास कहा in a 2010 कालम in the वृत्तान्त of Higher Education that `` For-profits exist in large part to fix educational market failures left by traditional institutions, and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no शक कि the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting the commodified college degree.
But वे किया n't commodify it in the first place. ''
Amendment xxii in the नेशनल Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment of the United States Constitution sets a term limit for election to the दफ्तर of अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Congress passed the amendment on कूच 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the आवश्यक क्रमांक of states on February 27, 1951.
This is an एपीसोड guide for the anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every एपीसोड, शुरूआत साथ the असली japanese-language शीर्षक as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the title used in the English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network.
A short summary will follow, introducing the एपीसोड and referring to some of the gags, but not giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names और कुछ of the references will be the ones used from the English-language version to avoid confusion.
Japanese names may be presented after the dub name in कोष्ठक.
This article is परिचय the पब्लिक park in New York City.
For other uses, see सेंट्रल Park ( disambiguation ).
Central Park is a public पार्क at the बीच of मैनहटन in New York City.
The park initially opened in 1857, on of city-owned जमीन ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, फ्रेडरिक विधि olmsted और calvert vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan.
Construction began the same साल, जारी during the American Civil War, and was completed in 1873.
Central Park is the सबसे visited urban park in the United States.
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is currently managed by the Central Park conservancy अंतर्गत अनुबंध साथ the नगर सरकारी.
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल पार्क 's $ 37.5 million annual budget, and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a प्रीपेड बेतार service provider operating in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ), tracfone बेतार holds अनेक समझौतों साथ the us largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of Verizon, AT & T, Sprint, and T-Mobile.
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under multiple ब्रांड्स जिससे प्रत्येक भी प्रस्ताव distinctive service plans, the brands include TracFone, NET10 Wireless, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and Simple Mobile.
A पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at least partly underwater, in shallow seas or fresh water areas साथ the purpose of महफ़िल up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location.
This तकनीक is often used to keep waterways navigable.
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on some public beaches, where sand रै महरूम खोया क्युकी of तटीय erosion.
Dredging is also used as a technique for फ़िशिंग लिये निश्चित प्रजाति of खाद्य clams and crabs, see fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the सामान्य usage in the Americas ) is any device, machine, or vessel that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water.
For example, a scoop attached to the end of a rope or ध्रुव by जिससे a man can चित्रण sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this idea further, a motorized crane equipped with a drag bucket or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to scoop सामग्री इससे the नीचे of a देह of जल is also a dredger.
The crane could be located on the bank, or शायद mounted on a barge.
If the crane is mounted on a barge, the संपूर्ण vessel is referred to as a dredger.
The प्रक्रम of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), which are carried away from the dredged area.
Dredging can produce सामग्री लिये जमीन reclamation or अन्य उद्देश्य ( usually construction-related ), and has also historically played a significant role in gold mining.
Dredging can बनाएँ disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, often with adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed इससे the International Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's सतह or क्रस्ट, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally मिला where tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By कंट्रास्ट, ज्वालामुखी are usually not created where two tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार, the कुएं Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This type of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km गहन in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose many जोखिमों, नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, वे भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby वार्मिंग the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict Arnold ( June 14, 1801 ) was a general during the American Revolutionary War who originally fought for the अमरीकी महाद्वीपीय फौज लकिन defected to the अंग्रेजों फौज.
While a general on the American side, he obtained command of the fort at वेस्ट पाइंट, नई यॉर्क, और नियोजित to surrender it to the British forces.
After the plan was exposed in September 1780, he was commissioned into the अंग्रेजों फौज as a brigadier general.
Born in Connecticut, Arnold was a merchant ऑपरेटिंग जहाजों on the अटलांटिक समंदर when the war broke out in 1775.
After joining the growing army outside Boston, he विशिष्ट खुद through acts of intelligence and bravery.
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776, the Battle of ridgefield, कनेक्टिकट ( बाद जिससे he थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य ), परिचालन in राहत of the Siege of Fort Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years.
Despite Arnold 's successes, he was passed over लिये प्रमोशन by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस जबकि other officers claimed credit for some of his accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance, लकिन सबसे प्रायः he थी acquitted in formal inquiries.
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to Congress after बिता much of उसके अपना धन on the war effort.
Frustrated और कड़वा, अर्नाल्ड decided to बदलें sides in 1779, and opened secret negotiations with the British.
In July 1780, he was offered, continued to pursue और थी awarded command of West Point.
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the British was उजागर जब अमरीकी शक्तियां captured अंग्रेजों Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of André 's कैप्चर, अर्नाल्ड fled bas the हडसन नदी to the British sloop-of-war Vulture, narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of George Washington, who had been alerted to the plot.
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the अंग्रेजों फौज, an सालाना पेंशन of £360, and a lump sum of over £6,000.
He led British forces on raids in Virginia, and against New London और groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown.
In the शीत of 1782, अर्नाल्ड स्थानांतरित to लंदन with his second wife, Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold.
He was well received by King George III and the Tories but frowned upon by the whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the व्यापारी कारोबार साथ उसके बेटे रिचर्ड and Henry in Saint John, New Brunswick.
He लौटे to लंदन to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten years later.
Because of the way he changed पहलू, उसके नाम जल्दी became a in the United States for treason or betrayal.
His conflicting विरासत is recalled in the अस्पष्ट nature of some of the memorials that have been placed in his honor.
Curtis Montague schilling ( born नवम्बर 14, 1966 ) is a पूर्व American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer.
He helped lead the फिलाडेल्फिया Phillies to the World Series in and won World Series championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox.
Schilling retired with a करियर postseason record of 11–2.
His.846 postseason winning percentage is a major-league रिकार्ड among pitchers with at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he founded ग्रीन दानव खेल जिससे थी renamed 38 Studios.
The company released kingdoms of amalur : हिसाब in February 2012, but just three months later, Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week.
Star Wars is an American epic space opera franchise centered on a film series निर्मित by जार्ज लुकास.
The film series has spawned a media franchise बाहर the फिल्मी श्रेणी पुकारा the विस्तारित ब्रह्मांड सहित किताबे, television series, computer and video games, and comic books.
These पूरक to the फिल्मी trilogies have resulted in significant development of the series ' fictional universe.
These media kept the franchise क्रियाशील in the अंतरिम between the film trilogies.
The franchise portrays a आकाशगंगा कि is वर्णित as far, far away in the distant past.
It commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of good, in विरोध साथ the Sith, their evil counterpart.
Their weapon of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly recognized in popular culture.
The fictional universe also contains many विषयवस्तु, विशेषकर प्रभाव of philosophy and religion.
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25, 1977, under the title Star Wars, by 20th Century Fox, and became a worldwide pop संस्कृति घटना, followed by दो सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years after the release of the त्रयी 's final film, the first in a new prequel trilogy of films was released.
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals, with the final film of the त्रयी released on May 19, 2005.
In October 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that it होता उपज तीन नई films, साथ the पहला फिल्मी, Star Wars Episode VII, planned for release in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies, owning permanent rights for the असली फिल्मी एपीसोड iv : A New Hope, while holding the rights to Episodes I–III, V and VI until May 2020.
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive, with the last film being माना the weakest, जबकि the प्रीक्वेल त्रयी प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया, with most of the praise being for the final movie, according to most review aggregator websites.
All six of the प्रमुख films in the श्रेणी were also nominated for or won Academy Awards.
All of the main films have been box office successes, with the overall बक्सा दफ्तर आय उत्पन्न by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars : The Clone Wars ) totalling $ 4.49 billion, making it the third-highest-grossing film series.
The success has also led to multiple re-releases in थिएटर for the series.
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately पुकारा thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, हालांकि ये names हैं rarely प्रयुक्त ) is the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly called platelets, a component of blood involved in blood clotting.
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets, which is performed by a device used in blood donation that separates the platelets and रिटर्न अन्य portions of the रक्त to the donor.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious complications from bleeding and hemorrhage in patients who have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( कम platelet गिनती ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to दावत विकार resulting in extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis.
In computer networking, a port is an application-specific or process-specific तन्त्र construct serving as a communications endpoint in a computer 's host operating system.
A port is associated with an IP address of the host, as खूब as the प्रकार of प्रोटोकॉल used for communication.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a single physical कनेक्शन to a packet-switched संजाल जैसे the अंतरजाल.
The protocols that primarily use ports are the हस्तांतरण Layer protocols, such as the Transmission Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite.
A port is identified for each address and protocol by a 16-bit क्रमांक, commonly known as the port number.
The port number, added to a computer 's IP पता, completes the गंतव्य पता for a communications session.
That is, data packets are routed across the संजाल to a specific destination IP address, and then, upon reaching the destination computer, are further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number.
Note that it is the संयोजन of ip पता and port number together that must be globally unique.
Thus, different ip पता or प्रोटोकॉल may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक लिये संचार ; e.g., on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may use the same port number, or on a host with two interfaces, both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known पोर्ट हैं सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन to पहचानो विशिष्ट सेवा प्रकार on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, ports are used to provide a multiplexing service on each server-side port number that संजाल क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to लिये सेवा दीक्षा, बाद जिससे संचार can be reestablished on अन्य connection-specific port numbers.
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas, including the cities of Fort स्मिथ, fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the second, third, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, respectively.
It was created in 2002 in a split इससे क्षेत्रफल कोड 501.
क्षेत्रफल कोड 479 serves benton, कैरल ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, Logan, Madison, Polk, Pope, Scott, Sebastian, Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas.
Arraignment is a औपचारिक पढना of a दण्ड charging document in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her.
in जवाब to arraignment, the accused is expected to enter a plea.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include `` guilty '', `` not guilty '', and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in बार ) सेटिंग आउट reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) and the `` Alford plea `` are allowed in some circumstances.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Australia, arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal विचारण, और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत reading out the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether he or वो pleads अपराधी or not guilty to each charge.
In संघीय न्यायालयों of the United States, arraignment takes place in two stages.
The first is called the initial arraignment and must take place within 48 hours of an individual 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday.
During this arraignment the defendant is सूचित of the स्थगित विधिक आरोप and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel.
The presiding judge also decides at कया राशि, if कोई, to नियत bail.
During the दूसरी arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or PIA, the defendant is allowed to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), known as the Father of English literature, is widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle आयु और थी the पहला कवि to have महरूम buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author, philosopher, alchemist and astronomer, composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis, Chaucer also maintained an active करियर in the सिविल सेवा as a नौकरशाह, courtier and diplomat.
Among his many works, which include The Book of the Duchess, the House of Fame, the Legend of Good Women और troilus और criseyde, he is बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज for The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular, मध्य अंग्रेज़ी, at a time when the dominant literary languages in England were French and Latin.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that affected northern Illinois and उत्तरपश्चिम इंडियाना, U.S. on January 13 – January 14, 1979.
of हिम गिरी on जनवरी 13 alone, setting a new record for snow in one calendar day.
By the end of जनवरी 14, of snow had fallen.
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the शिकागो 'L ' प्रणाली.
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses, quickly overwhelming क्षमता, resulting in usual बस commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours.
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets, the overcrowded buses were obliged to take numerous detours, adding additional time to the commute.
Deployment of plows थी significantly विलम्बित and when they finally appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the अगला 2 months, causing ongoing public transit delays and significant problems with trash collection.
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard थी blamed primarily on mayor Michael Bilandic, who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted bilandic ; जेन byrne, bilandic 's प्रमुख राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वी in the लोकतांत्रिक प्राथमिक ( जो था previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along ), capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary.
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two अवधि : a.m. ( इससे the लैटिन ante meridiem, अर्थ `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 घंटों गिने : 12 ( एक्टिंग as शून्य ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was developed over time from the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th सदी AD.
Health spending per capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the health care systems in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं प्रायः बना by सरकारी, public health and public policy analysts.
the दो देशों had similar health care systems before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than कनाडा, on दोनो a per-capita आधार और as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health परवाह in कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by government, versus 46 % in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care थी 23 % उच्चतर than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have आइये to अलग conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S., but वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the distribution of health, the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान '', क्रमित कनाडा 30th और the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare system is superior.
The WHO 's study methods were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा और टीप the `` मुश्किल research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and बहुत विशाल arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of spiders, of which approximately 900 species have been identified.
This article only describes members of Theraphosidae, although some other members of the वही suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans, and some species have become popular in the exotic pet trade.
The ton is a unit of माप.
It has a long history and has acquired a क्रमांक of meanings and uses over the years.
It is प्रयुक्त प्रधानतया as a ईकाई of weight, and as a unit of volume.
It can also be used as a measure of energy, for ट्रक वर्गीकरण, or as a colloquial term.
It is derived इससे the tun, the पद लागू to a barrel of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 गैलन ( 800 to 1000 l ), जिससे could तौल around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space.
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units, including the टन ( मीट्रिक ton ), a non-si metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded इससे उपयोग लिये व्यापार अनेक इकाई and terms, including the ton and the term `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the United States और formerly कनाडा a ton is defined to be.
Where confusion is possible, the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is विशिष्ट by इसके स्पेलिंग, लकिन प्रायः pronounced the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` मीट्रिक ton '' जब it is जरुरी to make the distinction.
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used, but for many purposes इस is नहीं जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और long tons differ by only 1.6 %, and the short ton is within 11 % of both.
The ton is the heaviest unit of weight referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is also प्रयुक्त to refer to a क्रमांक of units of volume, ranging from in capacity.
It can also be used as a unit of उर्जा, expressed as an समतुल्य of coal burnt, TNT detonated, or in refrigeration, ice melted.
In Britain, ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in several contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a cost or a speed, a ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100 mph.
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship ट्रॉफी awarded annually to the नेशनल Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston, then- Governor General of Canada, who awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club, which the entire Stanley family supported, with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game.
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the two professional बर्फ हॉकी organizations, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( PCHA ), reached a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup.
After a series of league mergers and folds, the स्टेनली `` प्रस्तुतीकरण कप '' थी स्थापित as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947.
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the असली कटोरी of the `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup '', the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL has maintained प्रभावी कंट्रोल over both the trophy itself and its associated trademarks.
Nevertheless, the NHL does not actually own the trophy, but instead uses it by अनुबंध साथ the two Trustees of the Cup.
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, although the league 's right to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts.
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका, a नई Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned.
It is unusual among ट्राफियां, in कि it रै the names of सब of the winning players, coaches, management, and club staff engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new band added each year caused the trophy to grow in आकार, कमाई the उपनाम `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band बैरल जिससे could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing, when the bottom band is full, the oldest बैंड is removed और preserved in the हॉकी Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
It has been referred to as The Cup, Lord Stanley 's Cup, The Holy Grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as रब स्टेनली 's मग.
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions, the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team.
The original bowl was made of silver और is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28 इंच ) in ऊँचाई और 29 सेण्टीमीटर ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter.
The current Stanley Cup, topped with a copy of the original bowl, is made of a silver and nickel alloy ; it has a height of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
Since the 1914–15 season, the Cup has been won a combined 94 टाइम्स by 18 क्रियाशील एनएचएल टीमों और पाँच defunct teams.
Prior to that, the चुनौती कप थी आयोजित by nine different teams.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the कप a रिकार्ड 24 times and are currently the last Canadian-based team in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The स्टेनली कप थी नहीं awarded in 1919 because of a Spanish flu epidemic, and in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a तीव्र संयंत्र साथ खाद्य अनेक fruit consisting of coalesced berries, and the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae family.
Pineapples may be cultivated इससे a crown cutting of the fruit, possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months.
Pineapple does not ripen significantly post-harvest.
Pineapples are consumed fresh, cooked, juiced, और preserved, और हैं found in a wide array of cuisines.
In addition to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल पेपर और furnishings, amongst other uses.
In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a आंकड़ा प्रकार जिससे represents कुछ परिमित subset of the mathematical integers.
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be अनुमत to contain ऋणात्मक मान.
Integers are commonly represented in a कंप्यूटर as a group of binary digits.
The size of the grouping varies so the नियत of पूर्णांक आकार उपलब्धियाँ varies between different types of computers.
Computer hardware nearly सदा provides a way to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer.
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a large hydro facility, with an संस्थापित क्षमता of.
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the production of विद्युत शक्ति through the उपयोग of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water.
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, and is expected to बढ़ाएँ परिचय 3.1 % प्रत्येक साल लिये the next 25 years.
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the asia-pacific प्रदेश generating 32 प्रतिशत of global hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 प्रतिशत of घरेलू विद्युत उपयोग.
There are now three hydroelectricity पौधे larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges Dam in China, Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border, and Guri Dam in Venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी source of renewable electricity.
The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents प्रति kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is भी a लचीली सोर्स of electricity since plants can be ramped up and down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands.
However, damming interrupts the प्रवाह of नदियाँ और can नुक़सान लोकल ecosystems, and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than चट्टान ईंधन संचालित उर्जा plants.
Wine boy at a यूनानी symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of सालो और is closely intertwined साथ the इतिहास of agriculture, cuisine, civilization and humanity itself.
Archaeological प्रमाण suggests कि the earliest ज्ञात वाइन उत्पादन occurred in what is now the country of Georgia around 7000 BCE, with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The world 's oldest known winery ( dated to 3000 BCE ) थी खोजा in areni-1 गुफा in a mountainous area of Armenia.
url_http.
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of the grapevine took प्लेस दौरान the जल्दी कांस्य आयु in the Near East, Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE.
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has महरूम uncovered at पुरातत्व साइट in उत्तरी Greece ( Macedonia ), dated to 4500 BC.
These same sites also contain remnants of the world 's earliest प्रमाण of कुचल अंगूर.
In Egypt, वाइन became a भाग of अंकित history, playing an important role in ancient ceremonial life.
Traces of जंगली वाइन डेटिंग इससे the second and first millennia BCE have also been found in China.
Moroccan wine kasher लेबल 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine is डेटिंग वापस to biblical times.
The long इतिहास of the use and production of wine throughout ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora communities all around the globe, the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, was common in प्राचीन यूनानियों और रोम, और अनेक of आज 's major wine-producing regions of Western Europe were established with Phoenician and, later, Roman plantations.
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of the Roman Empire : many grape varieties and cultivation techniques were known ; the डिज़ाइन of the वाइन दबायें उन्नत ; और barrels यहूद विकसित for storing and shipping wine.
Rashi, a medieval French rabbi and called the `` पिता '' of सब टीका कि followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh, earned his living as a vintner.
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export, the Christian Church in medieval Europe also became a firm supporter of wine, जरुरी लिये जश्न of the कैथोलिक द्रव्यमान. whereas वाइन थी हराम in मध्यकालीन इस्लामी संस्कृतियों, इसके उपयोग in ईसाई libation थी widely tolerated.
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the distillation of वाइन लिये इस्लामी औषधीय और औद्योगिक purposes such as perfume.
Wine production gradually increased, साथ खपत burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
Wine production survived the devastating phylloxera जूं of 1887 और आखिरकार spread to numerous regions throughout the world.
Districts of वेस्ट Bengal
The Indian state of West Bengal borders with Nepal, भूटान, बांग्लादेश और the भारतीय राज्य of बिहार, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Sikkim.
The Himalayas झूठ in the उत्तर of the state and the Bay of Bengal is at the south.
in between उन्हें, the river Ganges flows eastwards and its main distributary, the Hooghly River, flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal.
The Siliguri Corridor, which connects North-East India with rest of the India, lies in the North Bengal region of the state.
Geographically, West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region, Terai and Doors region, North Bengal plains, Rarh region, Western plateau and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans और the गंगा डेल्टा.
in 1947, जब इण्डिया gained independence, the state of West Bengal was formed with 14 districts, as per partition plan of the then Bengal province of British India.
the पूर्व princely राज्य koch बिहार joined as a district in 1950, and the former French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia district to the राज्य और to enlargement of वेस्ट दिनाजपुर district.
Later, larger districts ऐसे as West Dinajpur, 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated.
West Bengal is now divided into nineteen districts under तीन विभाजन.
Districts are administered by ज़िला magistrates, and divisions are administered by Divisional Commissioners.
Kolkata, the पूंजी of the state, constitutes the Kolkata district.
Other districts are further divided into administrative units such as subdivisions and ब्लॉक, administered by sdo और bdo, respectively.
The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier ढांचा in the state.
The atomic ईकाई is पुकारा a ग्राम पंचायत, which is the Panchayat organization for a collection of villages.
The block-level organizations are called Panchayat Samiti, and the district-level organizations are named Zilla parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea, its islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the caribbean समुद्र और the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर ), और the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American mainland, east of Central America, and north of South America.
Situated largely on the caribbean थाली, the प्रदेश comprises more than 700 islands, islets, reefs, and cays.
( देखिए the सूची. )
These islands generally form island arcs that delineate the eastern और उत्तरी किनारे of the Caribbean Sea.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ), are part of the somewhat larger वेस्ट इंडीज समूहीकरण, जिससे भी शामिल the lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the mainland countries of Belize and Guyana – historically and culturally भाग of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज – may be included.
geopolitically, the caribbean आइलैंड्स हैं प्रायः regarded as a subregion of North America and are organized into 30 territories including sovereign states, overseas departments, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, there was a short-lived country called the Federation of the वेस्ट इंडीज रचित of टेन english-speaking Caribbean territories, all of which were then UK dependencies.
The West Indies cricket team continues to represent अनेक of those nations.
This is a list of the 221 कस्बों और 13 cities in the U.S. state of New Hampshire.
For each town/city, the table lists the county to which it belongs, इसके तिथि of incorporation, इसके जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 census, its form of government, and its principal villages.
Cities are indicated in boldface.
Cities and towns हैं treated identically under state law.
Cities are just towns whose form of government was changed by a special act of the New हैम्पशायर विधानमंडल.
However, towns currently are able to change their form of government by simple voter approval of a new municipal charter, with several of the अधिक populous कस्बों having already done so.
The main slave routes in मध्यकालीन Africa.
This article discusses प्रणालियों, history, and effects of slavery within Africa.
देखिए अरब स्लेव व्यापार, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, Maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` Slave transport in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the आंतरिक regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many सदियां, और continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent, as वे यहूद in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began, अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
गुलामी in ऐतिहासिक अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with यूरोपीय colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having played quarterback for the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL इतिहास to throw लिये over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He थी traded to ग्रीन Bay on February 10, 1992, for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the चौथी game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He थी traded to the नई यॉर्क jets और प्रारंभ at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 लगातार starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
He is the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to आठ प्रभाग championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL रिकॉर्ड, सहित सबसे करियर touchdown गुजरता, सबसे करियर गुजर yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most career interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is भी referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger ''.
salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise software company headquartered in San Francisco, California.
Though best known for its customer relationship management ( CRM ) product, Salesforce has also expanded into the `` social एंटरप्राइज़ एरिना '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative कम्पनी in अमेरिका by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका, as well as number 27 in Fortunes magazine 's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012.
As of April 2013, the कम्पनी is क्रमित छठे in providing services in marketing and customer service automation.
It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the s & p 500 अनुक्रमणिका.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos अर्थ `` sea monster ''.
Earth is the third planet from the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the आठ planets in the Solar System.
It is also the largest of the सौर प्रणाली 's चार terrestrial planets.
It is sometimes referred to as the world or the Blue Planet.
धरती formed लगभग 4.54 अरब years ago, and life appeared on its surface within its first billion years.
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions, which enabled the proliferation of organisms as well as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत, जिससे साथ साथ धरती 's चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड अवरोधित नुकसानदेह सौर radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
the शारीरिक गुण of the धरती, as well as its geological history and orbit, have allowed life to persist.
Estimates on how much longer the ग्रह होगा be समर्थ to continue to support life range from, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid segments, or tectonic plates, that migrate across the सतह over अवधि of अनेक लाखो of years.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans, with the remainder consisting of continents and आइलैंड्स जिससे साथ have अनेक झीलों और अन्य स्त्रोत of जल that contribute to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of the अंटार्कटिक बर्फ चादर और the समुद्र बर्फ कि is the ध्रुवीय बर्फ packs.
The planet 's interior remains active, with a solid iron inner core, a द्रव बाहरी कोर कि generates the चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड, और a thick layer of relatively solid mantle.
धरती gravitationally interacts with other objects in space, especially the Sun and the Moon.
During एक कक्षा around the सूर्य, the धरती rotates about its own axis 366.26 times, creating 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane, producing seasonal variations on the planet 's सतह साथ a काल of एक तीव्र year ( 365.24 solar days ).
The Moon is Earth 's only प्राकृतिक उपग्रह.
It began orbiting the Earth about.
The Moon 's gravitational interaction with Earth stimulates ocean tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is home to millions of प्रजाति of जीवन, including humans.
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the उत्पाद of the biosphere contribute resources that are used to support a global human population.
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent sovereign states, which interact through कूटनीति, सफर, व्यापार, और सैन्य कार्रवाई.
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet, including its personification as a planetary deity, its shape as flat, its position as the center of the ब्रह्मांड, and in the modern Gaia Principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the Waite-Smith tarot, who is चित्रित using the same tools that modern Wiccans use.
In the neopagan religion of Wicca, a दायरा of जादुई tools are used in ritual practice.
Each of these tools has different उपयोग और एसोसिएशन, और हैं used primarily to direct magical energies.
They are used at an altar, inside a जादू circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are often divided into personal tools, which are for use by, and owned by, an individual Wiccan, and आउटटेक टूल्स, प्रयुक्त collectively by the coven.
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the Square and compasses ), इससे जिससे wicca draws कुछ सामग्री, और partly इससे the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
The latter made much use of material from medieval grimoires such as the Key of Solomon, which has many illustrations of जादुई टूल्स और निर्देश for their preparation.
ठेठ eukaryotic cell.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ), और तब रिलीज waste products.
the प्रतिक्रियाएँ शामिल in श्वसन are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is एक of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular श्वसन is माना an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the देह, सबसे of जिससे हैं redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a जीना कोशिका.
This difference is क्युकी it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion प्रतिक्रिया, no single reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar, amino acids and fatty acids, and a आम oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप, thereby transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure आग extinguisher made by Amerex
A British fire extinguisher with ID sign, call point and आग कार्रवाई चिह्न
A fire extinguisher, ज्वाला extinguisher, or बस an extinguisher, is an active fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires, often in emergency situations.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire, such as one which has reached the ceiling, endangers the user ( i.e., no escape रूट, धुँआ, विस्फोट जोखिम, इत्यादि. ), or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held बेलनाकार दबाव vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in all इमारतें अन्य than घरों, हैं generally required to be serviced and inspected by a Fire Protection service company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions आवश्यकता अधिक बारंबार service for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of सेवा performed ( सालाना निरीक्षण, recharge, new fire extinguisher ) and when.
There are two main types of fire extinguishers : भंडारित pressure and cartridge-operated.
In stored pressure units, the expellant is stored in the same कक्ष as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the agent used, अलग propellants are used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, नाइट्रोजन is typically प्रयुक्त ; जल and foam extinguishers typically use air.
भंडारित दबाव fire extinguishers are the most common type.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate cartridge that is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is not as common, used primarily in areas such as औद्योगिक सुविधाएं, जहाँ वे receive higher-than-average use.
They have the advantage of simple and prompt रिचार्ज, allowing an operator to discharge the extinguisher, recharge it, and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
Unlike stored pressure types, these extinguishers use compressed कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड बजाय of नाइट्रोजन, हालांकि nitrogen cartridges are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical and dry powder types in the U.S. and in water, wetting agent, झाग, शुष्क रासायनिक ( वर्ग एबीसी और b.c. ), और शुष्क चूर्ण ( क्लास d ) प्रकार in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers हैं further divided into handheld and cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers तौल इससे 0.5 to 14 गामा ( 1 to 30 pounds ), and are hence, easily portable by hand.
Cart-mounted units typically weigh 23+ गामा ( 50+ pounds ).
These wheeled models are most commonly found at construction sites, विमानक्षेत्र runways, heliports, as खूब as docks और marinas.
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in North America within the boundaries of the present-day continental United States, अलास्का, और the island state of Hawaii.
They are रचित of numerous, distinct Native American tribes and ethnic groups, many of which survive as intact political communities.
The terms प्रयुक्त to refer to देशी अमेरिकी have been controversial.
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews, most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ), and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however, this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or निश्चित अलास्कन natives, ऐसे as aleut, yup'ik, or इनुइट peoples.
Since the end of the 15th century, the migration of Europeans to the Americas, and their importation of Africans as slaves, has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World समाजों.
Europeans created most of the early written historical record about Native Americans after the colonists ' आव्रजन to the Americas.
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer समाजों और बताई their histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, women carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of staple crops : maize, beans and squash.
The indigenous cultures were quite different from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, ज़्यादातर ईसाई आप्रवासियों इससे western Eurasia.
Many Native संस्कृतियों यहूद matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for use of the entire community, for hunting or agriculture.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had developed concepts of व्यक्तिगत प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों साथ आदर to जमीन कि were extremely different.
The मतभेद in संस्कृतियों between the स्थापित देशी अमेरिकी and immigrant Europeans, as well as shifting alliances among different nations of each culture through the centuries, caused extensive political tension, ethnic violence and social disruption.
The Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the contact साथ संक्रामक यूरेशियाई रोगों, to जिससे they had no acquired immunity.
Epidemics after European contact caused the महानतम घाटा of जीवन for indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what आज constitutes the u.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 million to 18 million.
After the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन और Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the choctaw, or मजबूर ) became a consistent policy through American administrations.
दौरान the 19th सदी, the विचारधारा of manifest destiny became integral to the American nationalist movement.
Expansion of European-American populations to the west बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on देशी अमरीकी lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, authorizing the government to relocate Native Americans from their homelands within established states to lands west of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American expansion.
the पहला यूरोपीय अमेरिकी to encounter the western interior tribes were generally fur traders and trappers.
वहीँ यहूद भी जेसुइट missionaries active in the Northern Tier.
As संयुक्त राज्य expansion reached into the American West, settler and miner migrants came into increasing conflict with the Great Basin, Great Plains, and other Western tribes.
These were complex nomadic संस्कृतियों आधारित on घोड़ा संस्कृति और seasonal bison hunting.
They carried out दमदार प्रतिरोध to संयुक्त राज्य incursions in the decades after the American Civil War, in a series of Indian Wars, which were frequent up until the 1890s, but continued into the 20th century.
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into जनजातीय जमीन in the वेस्ट.
Over time, the U.S. forced a श्रेणी of treaties और जमीन cessions by the tribes, and established reservations for them in many western states.
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt european-style खेती और समान pursuits, लकिन european-american agricultural technology of the time was inadequate for often dry reservation lands.
In 1924, देशी अमेरिकी जो were not already U.S. citizens were granted citizenship by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship साथ the संयुक्त राज्य क्युकी they may be members of nations, tribes, or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central America ( ) is the central geographic प्रदेश of the americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, which connects with South America on the southeast.
When considered part of the unified महाद्वीपीय मॉडल, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize, Costa रिका, el साल्वाडोर, ग्वाटेमाला, होंडुरास, Nicaragua, and Panama.
Central अमेरिका is भाग of the mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, which extends from northern Guatemala through central Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the Caribbean Sea to the east, the North Pacific Ocean to the west, and Colombia to the south-east.
Central अमेरिका is an क्षेत्रफल of, or almost 0.1 % of the Earth 's surface.
as of 2009, its population was estimated at 41,739,000.
It has a density of 77 लोगों प्रति square kilometer.
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by विधेयक Lawrence that aired from October 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC and later ABC.
The series follows the lives of employees at the fictional पवित्र दिल शिक्षण hospital.
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी at the शुरूआत of the series, most of the main characters were medical interns.
The series features fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes प्रस्तुत ज़्यादातर as the daydreams of the सेंट्रल अक्षर, Dr. John `` J.D. ''
डोरियन, who is played by Zach Braff.
Actors starring alongside Braff in the पहला आठ सीज़न शामिल सारा chalke, डोनाल्ड Faison, Neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes.
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors, ऐसे as ब्रेंडन फ्रेज़र, Heather Graham, and Colin Farrell.
In the ninth season, many new cast members were introduced and the show setting moved from a हॉस्पिटल to a medical school.
Out of the असली डाल, तभी braff, faison और mcginley became नियमित cast members, while the others with the exception of Reyes, made guest appearances.
Braff appeared in six episodes of the नवीं ऋतु पहले departing.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza Coupe, Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series regulars साथ bishé बनने the show 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर 2, 2001 on NBC.
The series received a पीबॉडी पुरस्कार in 2006.
During the seventh season, NBC announced कि it होता नहीं नवीनीकृत the show.
Shortly after the seventh season finale, ABC announced it had picked up the आठवीं ऋतु of the श्रेणी, जिससे began जनवरी 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, एबीसी announced it had officially canceled Scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine, used in Netherton at the ironworks of m w grazebrook.
Re-erected on the a38 ( m ) in Birmingham, UK
A steam engine is a ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid.
Using खौलते जल to उपज mechanical motion goes back about 2,000 years, but early devices were not practical.
Since the late 1700s भाप इंजन have become a प्रमुख source of mechanical power.
The first अनुप्रयोग यहूद निकालना water from mines.
In 1781 James Watt patented a भाप इंजन that produced continuous rotative motion.
These 10 hp इंजन सक्रिय a wide range of manufacturing machinery to be powered.
The engines could be sited anywhere that जल और कोयले or wood fuel could be obtained.
By 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
Steam engines could also be लागू to वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन and the railway locomotives which are commonly just called steam engines outside America.
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the Industrial Revolution, allowing कारखानों to locate जहाँ जल शक्ति was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate परिचय 90 % of the इलेक्ट्रिक power in the United States using a variety of heat sources.
Steam engines are बाह्य दहन engines, where the working fluid is separate from the combustion products.
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar शक्ति, नाभिकीय शक्ति or geothermal energy may be used.
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze this प्रक्रम is पुकारा the Rankine cycle.
in the साईकिल, जल is heated into steam in a boiler until it reaches a high pressure.
When विस्तारित through pistons or turbines, mechanical work is done.
The reduced-pressure steam is तब सघन और उत्तेजित back into the boiler.
In general usage, the term steam engine can refer to either the integrated steam plants ( including boilers etc. ) such as railway भाप इंजनों और पोर्टेबल इंजन, or may refer to the पिस्टन or turbine machinery alone, as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine.
Specialized devices such as steam hammers और भाप pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied from a separate boiler.
A मिल इंजन from Stott Park Bobbin Mill, Cumbria, England
A steam locomotive in जर्मनी.this क्लास of इंजन थी निर्मित in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` मूव b***h '' or बस `` मूव '' ) is the तीसरा official single from rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf.
the सिंगल सुविधाएँ Mystikal and I-20.
The single reached # 10 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 बनाना it ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart, it also reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto rican reggaeton duo maicol & Manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo.
The song is also featured in episode 2, श्रेणी एक of अंग्रेजों teen comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also used by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter दौरान उसके छोटी कार्यावधि in Ring of Honor.
It was also प्रयुक्त लिये अप्रैल शिकारी in various Independent circuits.
It was featured in the फिल्म atl अभिनीत t.i., और ' Hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the song is played during traffic reports on many radio stations, usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is प्रदर्शित in the music video.
The song has been covered by rock band Start Trouble, on their album Every Solution Has Its Problem.
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the characters Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy पैट्रोल ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the first track of his album All दिन, `` Oh No ''.
एलिज़ाबेथ ii ( एलिज़ाबेथ एलेक्जेंड्रा मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories and dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is परम् राज्यपाल of the गिरिजाघर of England and, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, दक्षिण Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in लंदन और शिक्षित privately at home.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, from जिससे समय वो थी the वारिस presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second संसार युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
in 1947, वो शादीशुदा Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
Her coronation service took place in 1953 and was the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, such as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the patriation of the कनाडाई constitution.
Times of personal significance have शामिल the births और विवाह of उसके children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the falklands युद्ध, युद्धों with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
Christianity is the largest religion सूचीबद्ध by australians in the national census.
In the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, 61.1 % of australians were listed as Christian.
Australia has no official state religion and the Australian संविधान protects स्वतंत्रता of religion.
The presence of Christianity in ऑस्ट्रेलिया began साथ the आगमन of the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788.
the धर्म grew to खाता लिये 96.1 % of the नेशनल population at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901.
the anglican गिरिजाघर of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( formerly ज्ञात as the Church of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986, when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia.
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the population have diversified the demographics of धर्म in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as ईसाई in 2011, the largest denominations यहूद either रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and there are large और growing पेंटेकोस्टल groups, such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church.
The festivals of Easter and क्रिसमस are public holidays in Australia.
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and Christian organisations हैं अग्रणी non-government प्रदाताओं of health and welfare services through organisations like Catholic Health Australia, Anglicare, UnitingCare Australia, the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society.
Historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev Dr John dunmore लैंग, संत मरियम mackillop, कैथरीन हेलेन Spence, Pastor David Unaipon, the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current CEO of World Vision Australia, Frank Brennan, Jesuit human rights वकील, कार्डिनल जार्ज pell, कैथोलिक archbishop of सिडनी, फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान Anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane, Kevin Rudd, former Labor Prime Minister, and Tony Abbott, leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party.
Charter बनाना कॉलेजिएट स्कूल, जिससे became Yale College, October 9, 1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League research विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in नई हेवन, कनेक्टिकट.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of Connecticut, the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest संस्था of higher education in the United States.
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '', the संस्था traces इसके जड़ें to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale College '' to honor a gift इससे elihu yale, a राज्यपाल of the British East India Company.
In 1861, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S. संस्था to पुरस्कार the PhD. Yale became a founding member of the Association of American Universities in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the establishment of आवासीय कॉलेजों : 12 अभी मौजूद और दो अधिक हैं नियोजित.
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach and advise about 5,300 undergraduate और 6,100 ग्रैजुएट and professional students.
लगभग सब tenured professors सिखा undergraduate courses, more than 2,000 of which are offered annually.
The University 's एसेट शामिल an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion, the second-largest of any academic institution in the world.
Yale 's system of अधिक than दो दर्जन libraries holds 12.5 million volumes.
49 Nobel Laureates have been affiliated with the University as students, संकाय, और स्टाफ.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, सहित पाँच u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, 19 u.S. Supreme Court Justices, and several foreign heads of state.
At the graduate level, Yale Law School, Yale School of Art, and Yale School of Drama are consistently ranked the शीर्ष कार्यक्रम in उनके field.
Yale Law School is the most selective law school in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale Bulldogs in the ncaa प्रभाग i आइवी लीग.
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the United राज्य is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae, जिससे grows in arid और semi-arid शर्तें, throughout a range of cold desert, steppe, and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus Artemisia, ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया sagebrush ( artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the dominant plants across large portions of the ग्रेट जलाशय, covering कुछ 422,000 वर्गाकार मील in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states.
It is the राज्य flower of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of प्रजाति, ऐसे as ऋषि grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, pygmy rabbit, and mule deer.
Big sagebrush थी प्रयुक्त as an हर्बल आयुर्विज्ञान by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North America—especially for preventing infection in wounds, stopping internal bleeding, and treating headaches and colds.
Chemically, the active medicinal constituents शामिल camphor, terpenoids, and tannins.
Several major threats exist to sage brush ecosystems, सहित इंसान settlements, conversion to agricultural land, livestock grazing, invasive plant species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a फ़्री ईमेल सेवा offered by the American search engine company Yahoo !
It was launched in 1997, and, according to comScore, याहू ! मेल is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012.
Currently, Yahoo ! offers three versions of याहू ! Mail.
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic '' continues the उपलब्धता of the असली interface introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface, drag-and-drop features, improved search functionality, कुंजीपटल शॉर्टकट, address auto-complete, tabs, and other updated features.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! मेल, जिससे शामिल सुधार to the design, performance, search functionality, and Facebook integration.
In May 2011, beta testing for the new version रोका, और it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
In early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in जवाब to heated प्रतियोगिता in the फ़्री web-mail मार्केट segment.
On June 27, 2009, याहू ! मेसेंजर was integrated with Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban port city और the काउंटी सीट of Pierce County, Washington, United States.
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound, southwest of Seattle, northeast of the राज्य पूंजी, ओलंपिया, और उत्तरपश्चिम of Mount Rainier National Park.
The population थी 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the Puget Sound area और the तीसरा largest in the राज्य.
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for the दक्षिण Sound region, which has a population of around 1 million people.
Tacoma अपनाया its name after the nearby Mount Rainier, originally called Mount Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the उत्तरी प्रशांत रेलरोड in the late 19th century.
The decision of the railroad was बहकावे by टकोमा 's neighboring deep-water harbor, Commencement Bay.
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` जब rails मिलें sails. ''
Today शुरुआत खाड़ी serves the Port of Tacoma, a center of international trade on the Pacific Coast and Washington state 's largest port.
Like most central cities, टकोमा suffered a prolonged मनाही in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the downtown core include the University of Washington Tacoma ; Tacoma Link, the first modern electric light rail service in the state ; the state 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored शहरी waterfront, the thea Foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad मजदूर of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th century, to the Labor Ready workers of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough, gritty image.
A song about Tacoma, `` Thrice All American '', by American singer-songwriter and former resident Neko Case, describes it as `` a dusty बूढ़ा गहना in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down ''.
Tacoma-Pierce County has been नामित एक of the most livable areas in the country.
टकोमा थी भी recently listed as the 19th most walkable city in the country.
in कंट्रास्ट, the नगर is also ranked as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, women 's magazine Self named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy नगर '' in the संयुक्त States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest नगर in अमेरिका '', in भाग क्युकी of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक कार्यालयों held, and Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is famous for the 1940 पतन of the टकोमा Narrows Bridge.
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the दूसरी largest नगर in the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल, the seventh largest city in Southern California, the fourteenth largest city in the State of California, and the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the Mexican border in the South Bay region of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल, the नगर is at the बीच of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States.
Chula Vista is so named because of its scenic स्थान between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills.
संस्थापित in the जल्दी 19th century, fast population growth has recently been observed in the city.
As the second largest city in San Diego County, Chula Vista has quickly become a destination लोकप्रिय to अनेक पर्यटकों.
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training centers and popular tourist destinations include Cricket Wireless Amphitheater, the chula विस्टा मरीना, और the chula विस्टा प्रकृति बीच.
Metes और bounds is a system or method of describing land, real property ( in contrast to personal property ) or real estate.
The system has been प्रयुक्त in इंग्लैण्ड लिये अनेक सदियां, और is स्टिल प्रयुक्त वहीँ in the परिभाषा of general boundaries.
By custom, it थी लागू in the असली तेरह colonies that became the United States, and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law.
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography, along with directions and distances, to define और describe the सीमाएँ of a parcel of land.
The boundaries are described in a running prose style, working around the पार्सल in अनुक्रम, इससे a पाइंट of शुरूआत, returning वापस to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds.
It may include references to other adjoining parcels ( और उनके स्वामी ), and it, in turn, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the ground with permanent monuments placed where there were no उपयुक्त प्राकृतिक monuments.
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the मापन of प्रत्येक सीधा चलाएं, निर्दिष्ट by a अलहदा between the terminal points, and an orientation or direction.
A दिशा may be a सरल कम्पास bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more सामान्य boundary वर्णन, ऐसे as साथ a certain watercourse, a stone wall, an adjoining public road way, or an existing building.
The system is often used to define larger टुकड़े of प्रॉपर्टी ( e.g. खेतो ), और राजनैतिक subdivisions ( e.g. town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or would be far too expensive, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and mathematician who is widely regarded as एक of the सबसे influential वैज्ञानिकों of सब समय and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of Natural दर्शनशास्त्र '' ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1687, रखी the मूलाधार for most of classical mechanics.
Newton also made seminal contributions to optics and shares credit with Gottfried लैबनिट्ज़ लिये the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal calculus.
न्यूटन 's प्रिन्सिपिया प्रतिपादित the कानून of गति and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the physical universe for the next three centuries.
It also demonstrated कि the गति of वस्तुएँ on the Earth and that of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles.
By deriving Kepler 's laws of ग्रहीय गति इससे उसके गणितीय वर्णन of गम्भीरता, न्यूटन removed the last doubts about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first व्यावहारिक reflecting दूरदर्शी और विकसित a सिद्धान्त of रंग based on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the many colours of the visible spectrum.
he also formulated an empirical law of cooling and studied the speed of sound.
In addition to his work on the calculus, as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series, generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents, और विकसित Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of ट्रिनिटी College and the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and, unusually for a member of the Cambridge faculty, he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England, perhaps because he privately अस्वीकृत the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the गणितीय sciences, न्यूटन also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology, but most of his work in those areas remained unpublished until long after his death.
In his later life, Newton became president of the Royal Society.
He भी परोसा the अंग्रेजों government as Warden and Master of the Royal Mint.
Prof. Walter lewin explains न्यूटन 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles सब obey न्यूटन 's law of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts every other पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them.
( Separately it was shown that large spherically symmetrical masses आकर्षित और हैं आकर्षित as if all their mass were concentrated at their centers. )
This is a general physical law derived from empirical observations by कया न्यूटन पुकारा induction.
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` the प्रिन्सिपिया '' ), पहला published on 5 July 1687.
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society, रॉबर्ट hooke बना a अर्जी कि Newton had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below. )
In आधुनिक भाषा, the law states the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( N ), m1 and m2 in kilograms ( kg ), r in meters ( m ), और the निरंतर g is लगभग बराबर to.
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798, हालांकि कैवेंडिश किया नहीं खुद गणना a numerical value for G.
This experiment was also the first test of Newton 's theory of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years after Newton 's death, so none of Newton 's calculations could use the मान of g ; बजाय he could तभी गणना a force relative to another force.
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces, which is used to calculate the magnitude of विद्युत फ़ोर्स between दो चार्ज लाशें.
Both are inverse-square कानून, in जिससे फ़ोर्स is inversely proportional to the square of the distance between the bodies.
कूलम्ब 's विधि रै the उत्पाद of दो आरोप in प्लेस of the product of the masses, and the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law रै चूंकि महरूम superseded by आइंस्टीन 's सिद्धान्त of general relativity, but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity.
Relativity is required only when there is a need for चरम परिशुद्धता, or जब dealing साथ gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects.
White and red flags, representing Iraqi and American deaths, sit in the grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on the Corvallis, Oregon, कैम्पस of ऑरेगॉन राज्य University.
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती प्रोजेक्ट ), the ध्वज aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War. ''
( may 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of इराकी, और continuing साथ the ensuing occupation of इराकी, as खूब as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न हथियारबंद समूह operating in the country ) have come in many forms, and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly.
The table below summarizes various estimates of the इराकी casualty figures.
For troops in the U.S.-led बहुराष्ट्रीय गठबन्धन, the मौत टोल is carefully tracked and updated daily, and the names and photographs of those killed in action as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A total of 4,486 U.S. soldiers were मारे in इराकी between 2003 और 2012.
Regarding the Iraqis, however, information on both military और civilian हताहत is both less precise and less consistent.
Estimates of casualty स्तर हैं उपलब्धियाँ इससे पत्रकारों on the scene, from officials of involved organizations, and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the news media.
The word `` casualties `` in its most general sense includes the घायल as खूब as the dead.
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is नहीं स्पष्ट कया चाहिए be गिने : चाहिए तभी those चोटों serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do बीमारियों or चोटों caused by दुर्घटनाओं count, or should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different definitions may arrive at very different numbers, और sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified.
asalto al coche ( Robbery of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a thief and brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled और robbed by horse, as compared to a footpad who travelled and robbed on foot.
Mounted robbers were widely considered to be socially superior to footpads.
Such robbers operated in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड इससे the Elizabethan era until the early 19th century.
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms शामिल `` शूरवीरों of the सड़क '' और `` gentlemen of the road. ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North अमरीकी highwaymen यहूद सड़क एजेंटों in कुछ उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं while in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
In the same समय काल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, they were known as bushrangers.
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who played point guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ).
बाद जीतना championships in ऊँची school and college, Johnson was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers.
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his rookie season, and won चार अधिक championships साथ the लेकर्स during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing कि he था contracted hiv, but returned to play in the 1992 All-Star Game, winning the All-Star MVP Award.
After protests from उसके fellow players, he retired again for four years, but returned in 1996, at age 36, to play 32 games for the Lakers before retiring for the third and final time.
Johnson 's career achievements include three NBA MVP पुरस्कार, नौ एनबीए फाइनल दिखावे, बारह all-star खेल, और टेन all-nba First and Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists four टाइम्स, और is the एनबीए 's all-time नेता in average assists per game, at 11.2.
Johnson was a सदस्य of the `` सपना Team ``, the U.S. basketball team that won the Olympic gold medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, जॉनसन formed the जादू जॉनसन all-stars, a barnstorming team that travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 महानतम खिलाड़ी in एनबीए History in 1996, and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was रेटेड the महानतम NBA point guard of all time by ESPN in 2007.
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird, whom he faced in the 1979 ncaa फाइनल and three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his retirement, Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS prevention and safe sex, as well as an उद्योगों, लोकसेवक, प्रसारणकर्ता और प्रेरक speaker.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years, and was part of a समूह कि खरीदा the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012.
Allium cells in different phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and prokaryotes ( right )
The cell is the मौलिक संरचनात्मक, functional and biological unit of all known living organisms.
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing ( except virus, जिससे consists तभी इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन और lipids ), and is often called the building block of life.
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane, जिससे contains अनेक biomolecules ऐसे as प्रोटीन और nucleic acids.
Organisms can be classified as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell ; सहित सबसे जीवाणु ) or बहुकोशिकीय ( सहित पौधे and animals ).
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species, इंसानो contain परिचय 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 and 100 micrometres और इसलिए हैं दृश्य only under the microscope.
The cell was खोजा by रॉबर्ट Hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells, that all cells come from preexisting cells, that vital functions of an organism occur भीतर कोशिकाएं, और कि सब कोशिकाएं contain the खानदानी सूचना जरुरी for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
Cells emerged on planet Earth at least 4.0–4.3 अरब सालो पहले.
The word cell comes from the Latin गर्भगृह, अर्थ `` छोटी रूम ''.
The descriptive term for the smallest जीना biological ढांचा was coined by Robert Hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in.
Grecian Formula is a men 's hair coloring product in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Canada and यूरोपीय previously banned the product because of its use of lead acetate.
A motor scooter 's front with an impractical क्रमांक और किस्में of headlamps, added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the front of a vehicle to लाइट the सड़क ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the अंधेरा, despite तभी 25 % of ट्रैफ़िक यात्राएं during darkness.
While it is common for the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal discussion, headlamp is the term for the यंत्र itself, जबकि हेडलाइट properly refers to the बीम of light produced and distributed by the device.
Other vehicles, ऐसे as रेल और वायुयान, are required to have headlamps.
सायकिल headlamps हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त on bicycles, and are required in some jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a battery or a छोटी विद्युत generator on the wheel.
Additionally automotive night vision systems कार्य to संपूरक headlamps.
Women 's rights are the rights और entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or समर्थित by विधि, लोकल custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of इंसान अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine जॉनसन, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
गोल्डबर्ग बना her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये उसके भूमिका in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie mcdaniel जो जीती लिये गए With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, The Player, Made in America, How Stella Got Her नाली वापस, लड़की, बाधित और चूहा रेस.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी, as टेरी doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy पुरस्कार लिये उसके कार्य in television.
She was co-producer of the लोकप्रिय game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk दिखाएँ the दृश्य चूंकि 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden Globes, a टोनी ( लिये production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, four लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार, और रै महरूम honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is one of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy, ग्रैमी, ऑस्कर, और Tony Award.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of जिससे seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार, और one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, after the suspension of operations of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन, the नेशनल Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It प्रारंभ साथ चार टीमों और, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to जिससे the नाम of the लीग originally referred was Canada, although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a नई सामूहिक bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world और फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी इससे परिचय 20 अलग countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty क्लब चूंकि 1967, और the increased उपलब्धता of अत्यधिक skilled European players.
maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the nematocera, ऐसे as मच्छरों और Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as ऐसे ; in अनेक मानक textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the index at all.
In many non-technical ग्रन्थ the पद is प्रयुक्त for insect larvae in general.
Other स्त्रोत have coined their own definitions ; for example : ``...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared... '' and ``... Applied to the footless larvae of Dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other roles, various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops और foodstuffs, spreading सूक्ष्मजैविक infections, और causing myiasis.
Herod (, Hordos, Greek :, hērōdēs ), भी ज्ञात as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in Jericho ), was a Roman client king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the ग्रेट '' is widely विवादित as he is described as `` a madman who murdered his own family and a great many rabbis ``.
He is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके colossal भवन प्रोजेक्ट in जेरूसलम और elsewhere, सहित his expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of his biography are gleaned from the works of the 1st सदी ce roman–jewish इतिहासकार Josephus Flavius.
The Romans made Herod 's son, Herod Archelaus, ethnarch of Judea, Samaria, and Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
archelaus थी judged incompetent by the रोमन emperor Augustus who then combined Samaria, Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
Herod 's other बेटे हेरोदेस antipas थी tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens present on red रक्त कोशिकाएं और igm antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most important blood type system ( or रक्त group system ) in human blood transfusion.
The associated anti-A and anti-B antibodies हैं प्रायः igm antibodies, जिससे हैं प्रायः उत्पादित in the पहला सालो of जीवन by sensitization to environmental substances such as food, bacteria, and viruses.
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals, for example apes such as chimpanzees, bonobos, और gorillas.
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on Tuesday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent नगर स्तिथ in and divided by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan.
The area is a उपनगरीय of Metropolitan Detroit.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 5,970 at the 2010 census.
Most of the city is in Oakland काउंटी, और is घिरी by the city of Novi.
The Wayne काउंटी portion is घिरी by Northville Township.
northville is served by Northville Public Schools.
The city is located northeast of Ann Arbor और उत्तरपश्चिम of डेट्रॉयट.
ऐलेन stritch ( born February 2, 1925 ) is an American actress and vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays और musicals, विशेषता films, and many television programs.
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company, her 2001 one-woman show, ऐलेन stritch at स्वतंत्रता, और recently लिये उसके भूमिका as जोकर donaghy 's माँ Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been nominated for the Tony पुरस्कार पाँच टाइम्स in various categories.
Stritch is also a three-time Emmy पुरस्कार विजेता.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of young offenders sentenced to कार्य in a जातियाँ सेवा कार्यक्रम, जहाँ वे obtain अलौकिक शक्तियां बाद a अजीब electrical storm.
The series opened in 2009 and is फिलहाल ongoing.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan Rheon, Lauren Socha, Nathan stewart-jarrett, और रॉबर्ट sheehan हैं introduced as Alisha Daniels, Simon Bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
Sheehan left after the second series, replaced in the तीसरा by जोसेफ gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the fourth series was announced Rheon, Thomas and Socha had left their roles and would be replaced by new characters Karla crome, नाथन mcmullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex respectively.
Midway through the fourth series, stewart-jarrett बाएँ जबकि नताशा o'keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith.
On 19 March 2013, Channel 4 announced at a दबायें इवेंट कि वे have नवीनीकृत misfits for a fifth and final series containing 8 episodes.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the बहुमत of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having निभाई quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, और over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति लिये the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, for the 19th चुनें in the 1992 एनएफएल Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets और प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the ap सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to आठ प्रभाग championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most career interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे करियर victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his उपनाम `` the gunslinger ''.
The following is a list of notable aircraft hijackings around the संसार.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the web ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, videos, and other मल्टीमीडिया, और navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire, अंग्रेजों इंजीनियर, कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a यूरोपीय शोध organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a राजनेता और attorney इससे ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त राज्य, known for his proclivity for opposing his parties ' leadership, and specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and educated at the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin-madison और the विश्वविद्यालयों of Minnesota Law School, Morse moved to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law.
During World War II he was elected to the United States Senate as a Republican ; he became an Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1952.
While an independent, he set a record for performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the इतिहास of the Senate.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, और थी reelected twice while a member of that party.
Morse made a brief run for the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी 's अध्यक्षीय nomination in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the गल्फ of tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे प्राधिकृत the अध्यक्ष to लो सैन्य action in Vietnam without a declaration of war.
He continued to speak out against the war in the ensuing years, and lost his 1968 bid लिये reelection to bob packwood, जो criticized उसके दमदार opposition to the war.
Morse made two more bids for reelection to the सीनेट पहले उसके मौत in 1974.
In parliamentary कार्यविधि, a गति to table has two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to table प्रायः अर्थात् the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to मूव लिये postponement of consideration ; a proposal to suspend consideration of a pending motion.
much कम प्रायः, it अर्थात् a गति to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the english-speaking संसार such as the United Kingdom, to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the table ) : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the American and the अंग्रेजों dialects have the भाव of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table.
The difference is the idea of what the table is for, that of a शेल्फ बंद to the पक्ष, or an active work bench.
The British meaning has the भाव of the तालिका as होने an क्रियाशील कार्य bench, with the topic being the center of attention, considered and discussed by all until it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf, archive, or long-term storage यंत्र, जहाँ the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D computer animated comedy-drama prison film, और the तीसरा किश्त in the खिलौना स्टोरी श्रेणी.
It was produced by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Directed by Lee Unkrich, the film was released worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-d, reald, and IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released theatrically with dolby घेर 7.1 ध्वनि.
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt, while Unkrich wrote the story along with John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton, respectively director and co-writer of the दो पहला films.
the प्लाट focuses on the खिलौने वुडी, Buzz Lightyear, and their friends dealing with an uncertain future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle हैरिस, जॉन ratzenberger, वालेस shawn, जेफ़ pidgeon, Jodi Benson, R. Lee Ermey, John Morris, and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, who played Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed Lenny and wheezy, दोनो died पहले उत्पादन began on Toy Story 3.
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ), while Ranft 's वर्ण और विभिन्न others were written out of the story.
New characters include प्रदर्शन by ned beatty, टिमोथी डाल्टन, Kristen Schaal, Bonnie Hunt, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest खोलने दिन उत्तर अमरीकी सकल for an animated film unadjusted for inflation, and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar film, as well as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the माह of जून.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, both in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, और विश्वव्यापी.
In early August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing Finding nemo ), और the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब time worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month, Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 थी मनोनीत लिये पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार, including Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Sound Editing.
It was the third animated film ( बाद सौंदर्य और the जानवर and Up ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture.
It won the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड Feature and Best Original Song.
John Levell Starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an American retired पेशेवर बास्केट shooting guard.
Starks was सूचीबद्ध at 6'5 '' और 190 pounds during his NBA playing career.
Although he थी नहीं drafted in the 1988 एनबीए ड्राफ्ट बाद उपस्थित चार कॉलेजों in उसके देशी Oklahoma, including Oklahoma State University, he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s.
सुरक्षित डिजिटल or ( sd ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices, such as mobile phones, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital standard is कायम by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी and more than 8,000 models.
the सुरक्षित डिजिटल स्वरूप includes four card families available in three different form factors.
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( sdhc ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors are the original size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of रूप कारकों and device families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी card in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors कि can prevent the उपयोग of a नए sd card:
A newer card may offer greater क्षमता than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a file प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can not navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC ताश ऊपर 1 gb before the SDA had standardized a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ and assure users of compatibility.
Hugh John mungo ग्रान्ट ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a British actor and film producer.
He has received a Golden Globe, a bafta, और an Honorary César.
His films have अर्जित अधिक than us $ 2.4 billion from 25 theatrical releases worldwide.
Grant achieved international स्टारडम बाद appearing in रिचर्ड कर्टिस 's कामयाब Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this breakthrough role as a frequent cinematic persona during the 1990s, delivering कॉमिक प्रदर्शन in मुख्यधारा films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st century, he had established खुद as a अग्रणी man skilled with a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded उसके oeuvre साथ critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), About A Boy ( 2002 ), Love Actually ( 2003 ), and American Dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later played against type साथ अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches his roles like a character actor, and कोशिशें to मेक उसके एक्टिंग appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed संवाद डिलीवरी और फेशियल expressions.
The entertainment media 's coverage of ग्रान्ट 's जीवन बंद the बिग स्क्रीन has often overshadowed his work as a thespian.
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession of एक्टिंग, और in उसके disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that acting is not a true कॉलिंग लकिन बस a job he fell into.
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 ad ) थी an इम्पीरियल राजवंश of चीन, preceded by the qin राजवंश ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the विद्रोही नेता लियू Bang, known posthumously as Emperor Gaozu of Han.
It was briefly बाधित by the xin राजवंश ( 9–23 ad ) of the former regent Wang Mang.
This interregnum separates the Han into two periods : the Western Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) और पूर्वी हान ( 25–220 ad ).
Spanning over four centuries, the काल of the हान राजवंश is माना a सुनहरी age in Chinese history.
To this day, China 's बहुमत जातीय समूह refers to itself as the `` Han people '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The Han Empire was divided into areas directly controlled by the central government, known as commanderies, और a क्रमांक of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms धीरे खोया सब vestiges of their independence, particularly following the Rebellion of the Seven States.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic confederation which dominated the पूर्वी यूरेशियाई स्तान, पराजित the Han army in battle in 200 BC.
Following the defeat, a political marriage alliance was negotiated in जिससे the Han became the de facto inferior partner.
When, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu continued to raid Han borders, Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 bc ) शुभारम्भ अनेक सैन्य अभियान against them.
The ultimate Han victory in these युद्धों आखिरकार forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries.
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped स्थापित the विशाल व्यापार संजाल known as the Silk Road, which reached as far as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into two competing nations, the Southern and उत्तरी xiongnu, और मजबूर the उत्तरी xiongnu आरपार the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories north of Han 's borders were quickly overrun by the nomadic xianbei कनफेडरेशन.
After 92 AD, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics, engaging in violent power struggles between the विभिन्न consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers, causing the Han 's ultimate downfall.
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious समाजों जिससे instigated the पीला पगड़ी विद्रोह और the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the राजमहल हिजड़े suffered होलसेल नरसंहार by सैन्य officers, allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire.
When Cao Pi, किंग of वेई, usurped the throne from Emperor Xian, the Han Dynasty ceased to exist.
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy first स्थापित दौरान the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage issued by the central सरकारी मिंट in 119 bc remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ).
To pay for its military campaigns और the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories, the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed दौरान the पूर्वी Han period, and the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs.
The emperor was at the pinnacle of हान society.
He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the nobility and appointed ministers who came largely इससे the scholarly gentry क्लास.
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward, the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized with the cosmology of बाद विद्वानों ऐसे as डांग zhongshu.
This policy endured until the fall of the Qing राजवंश in 1911 AD.
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances, including papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the उपयोग of ऋणात्मक संख्याएँ in गणित, the raised-relief मैप, the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( also पुकारा tourette 's सिंड्रोम, tourette 's विकार, गाइल्स de la tourette सिंड्रोम, gts or, अधिक commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically wax and wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
tourette 's is पारिभाषित as भाग of a वर्णक्रम of tic disorders, which includes transient and chronic tics.
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome, most often associated with the exclamation of obscene words or socially अनुचित और अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ), लकिन इस लक्षण is उपस्थित in तभी a छोटी minority of people with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition, but it is not always correctly identified because most मामले हैं mild और the गंभीरता of tics decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient and chronic tics in school-age children is higher, with the more आम tics of नजर blinking, खाँसी, गला clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and tourette 's करता नहीं adversely affect प्रज्ञा or जीवन expectancy.
Genetic और पर्यावरणीय factors play a role in the etiology of Tourette 's, but the exact causes are unknown.
In most cases, medication is अनावश्यक.
There is no effective treatment लिये प्रत्येक मामला of tics, but certain medications and therapies can help when their use is warranted.
Education is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of कोई उपचार plan, and explanation and reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses अन्य than tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of Tourette 's, hence it is महत्वपूर्ण to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident, जॉर्जेस Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French physician and neurologist, who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885.
Sunbeam बैज.
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. ltd of wolverhampton, इंग्लैण्ड, in 1888.
The company first made bicycles, then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until परिचय 1936, और लागू the marque to सब तीन फ़ॉर्म of transportation.
the कम्पनी भी manufactured एयरो इंजन in the First World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War.
A सनबीम थी the पहला British car to win a Grand Prix race, and set a number of land speed records.
The कम्पनी गई into receivership in 1935 and was purchased by the Rootes Group, which continued to use the Sunbeam marque.
Fox News Channel ( FNC ), also known as Fox News, is a cable news channel owned by the Fox Entertainment Group, a subsidiary of न्यूज निगम.
As of April 2009, the channel was available to 102 लाख households in the संयुक्त राज्य और to viewers internationally, broadcasting primarily from its New York studios.
The channel was निर्मित by australian-american media mogul Rupert Murdoch, who hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
It launched on October 7, 1996 to 17 million cable सदस्य.
It grew during the late 1990s and 2000s to become the प्रबल केबल न्यूज संजाल in the United States.
Critics have stated that Fox News Channel promotes रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक positions and biased reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, and reporters at Fox News Channel have responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और राजनैतिक commentary operate independently of each other, and have denied any bias in news reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो the mandibular second premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( निम्नतर ) मेहराब of the mouth, and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The function of this molar is similar to कि of सब molars in लिहाज़ to grinding being the principal action during mastication, commonly known as chewing.
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ), two lingual ( side nearest the जीभ ), and one distal.
There are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular molars, भी हालांकि उनके फलन हैं similar.
The स्थाई mandibular molars are not considered to have any teeth that precede it.
Despite being named molars, the पतझड़ी molars हैं followed by स्थाई premolars.
In the universal system of notation, the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a अक्षर लिखा in अपरकेस.
The right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` s '', और the बाएँ एक is known as `` L ''.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय notation has a different system of notation.
Thus, the सही पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 84 '', और the बाएँ one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal system of notation, the स्थाई mandibular पहला molars हैं designated by a number.
The right permanent mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 30 '', और the left one is known as `` 19 ''.
The पामर संकेतन उपयोग a number in conjunction with a symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is found.
For this tooth, the left and right first molars would have the same number, `` 6 '', but the सही एक होता have the प्रतीक, `` ┐ '', over it, while the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a different numbering system than the पिछला दो, और the सही स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 46 '', and the left one is known as `` 36 ''.
Mandibular primary first molars प्रायः have चार pulp horns.
The first molar is usually the पहला स्थाई दाँत to erupt और रै वयस्क undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular पहला molar रै पाँच पुलिन : the mesiobuccal ( mb, toward midline और गाल ), mesiolingual ( ml, toward midline और tongue ), distolingual ( DL, away from midline and towards tongue ), distobuccal ( DB, away from midline and toward cheek ), and distal ( D, away from midline ), listed in order of decreasing size.
Listed in order of decreasing height they are : ML, DL, DF, MF, and D. An eighth cusp was found in a प्राथमिक दूसरी निम्नतर molar in an Argentinean child.
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( पाँच तरफा ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual, with the sides being the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, and the distobuccal surface.
The occlusal surface has four grooves.
The central groove is not सीधा लकिन रनों bas the बीच of the दाँत mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
The distobuccal groove runs from the distal pit in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the central pits in the central groove toward the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps.
The buccal नाली रनों इससे the अधिक mesial of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the central groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit.
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to खाता लिये the स्थितियाँ of the buccal और lingual डोले ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal view ), two roots are उपस्थित.
the distal रूट is generally straighter, although both often have a slight distal curvature.
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal contact the adjacent teeth and are located at the जंक्शन of the occlusal और मध्य तिहाई of the crown.
The Florida विधानमंडल is the two houses that act as the state legislature of the U.S. state of Florida.
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power of the राज्य shall be vested in a विधानमंडल of the राज्य of Florida, '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives.
The विधानमंडल is seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee.
Stained glass चित्रण of डेनियल interceding with Arioch, the king 's guard.
Arioch had been charged with killing all the हिकमत मेन बाद वे यहूद नहीं able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the second chapter of the Book of डेनियल in the Hebrew Bible.
The अध्याय 's source text is predominantly written in Aramaic.
According to the टेक्स्ट, nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of बाबुल who is troubled by his dreams.
He मांगे an निर्वचन for his dreams or will have his mystic interpreters executed.
डेनियल seeks दैवी Wisdom to interpret the king 's dreams and praises God with a short psalm.
God gives डेनियल a दृष्टि in the रात्रि to reveal the king 's dream.
Able to satisfy the king, Daniel is promoted over the whole province of Babylon.
One Comcast Center, the मुख्यालय of comcast in फिलाडेल्फिया, PA.
The old Comcast logo from 1969 to 1999, when it थी replaced साथ the crescent logo.
The Comcast Corporation is an अमरीकी प्रदाता of entertainment, information and communications products and services.
It is the largest cable operator, one of the biggest mass media, home Internet service provider, and third largest home telephone service provider in the United States, providing cable television, broadband Internet, टेलीफोन सेवा और in कुछ क्षेत्रों घर सुरक्षा ( सहित burglar सचेतक, निगरानी कैमरे, आग सचेतक प्रणालियों और घर स्वचालन ) to दोनो आवासीय और वाणिज्यिक ग्राहक in 40 states and the District of Columbia.
The company is headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया, Pennsylvania.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media संगुटिका nbcuniversal from GE in January 2011, and began the process of purchasing the remaining 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It समाप्त the खरीदें on March 19, 2013.
Comcast also has significant holding in अनेक केबल संजाल ( including E !
Entertainment Television, Style Network, G4, the Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network ), distribution ( ThePlatform ), and related businesses.
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for activities including its stance on net neutrality, as well as poor results on customer संतोष सर्वेक्षण.
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of sharp spines, or quills, कि बचाव और camouflage उन्हें इससे predators.
They are स्वदेशी to the americas, दक्षिणी Asia, and Africa.
Porcupines are the third largest of the rodents, behind the capybara और the बीवर.
Most porcupines हैं परिचय long, with an long tail.
Weighing, वे हैं rounded, large and slow.
Porcupines come in various shades of भूरा, धूसर, और the unusual white.
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas.
The आम साही is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, twigs and ग्रीन पौधे जैसे skunk cabbage and clover and in the winter it may eat bark.
The उत्तर अमरीकी साही often climbs trees to find food.
The African porcupine is not a climber and forages on the मैदान.
It is mostly nocturnal, but will sometimes forage लिये food in the day.
Porcupines have become a pest in कीनिया and are eaten as a delicacy.
the नाम साही आता from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
A regional अमरीकी name for the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 for Improvement in lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2, 1844 – October 10, 1929 ) was a black canadian-american आविष्कारक और engineer, who was notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born free in Canada, he returned as a five-year-old चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1847, जहाँ he जिया लिये the rest of his life and became a US citizen.
Honda FCX Clarity, a hydrogen fuel cell demonstration गाडी introduced in 2008
A hydrogen गाडी is a गाडी कि उपयोग hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive power.
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled स्पेस rockets, as well as automobiles and other transportation vehicles.
The power plants of such vehicles convert the रासायनिक उर्जा of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical उर्जा either by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine, or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors.
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling परिवहन is a key element of a proposed hydrogen economy.
Hydrogen ईंधन करता नहीं occur naturally on Earth and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an energy carrier.
It is most frequently made from methane or other चट्टान fuels, लकिन it can be उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा, solar, or nuclear ) that are intermittent, too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen पौधे, using electrolysis of water, are exploring technologies to deliver costs low enough, and quantities great enough, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the potential of hydrogen energy for mobile uses.
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy करेंसी is कि, if हाइड्रोजन is prepared बगैर using चट्टान ईंधन inputs, vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost, low energy content per unit volume, high tankage weights, very high storage vessel pressures, the storage, transportation and filling of gaseous or द्रव हाइड्रोजन in वाहनों, the विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना कि would be required to fuel vehicles, and the inefficiency of production processes.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California और the सीट of सरकारी of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive सेंट्रल घाटी.
With an estimated 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John sutter, sr., उसके बेटे जॉन sutter, jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of sutter 's फोर्ट, जिससे थी स्थापित by Sutter in 1839.
During the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सुनहरा फटाफट, sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट, a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural center, and a terminus for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State विश्वविद्यालयों, sacramento, अधिक commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
it is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park पड़ोस.
In addition, the University of California, डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस, वेस्ट of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned research hospital, is located in the नगर of sacramento.
the ठहराना स्टोर is a कड़ी of retail stores owned and operated by Apple Inc., dealing in computers and consumer electronics.
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers, software, iPods, iPads, आईफ़ोन, third-party accessories, and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV.
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio लिये प्रशिक्षण साथ ठहराना उत्पाद ; सब स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a Genius Bar for technical support and repairs, as well as free workshops available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson, the former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations, the Apple Stores have, according to an article in the New York Times, been responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring कंप्यूटर बिक्री मंजिल into a sleek playroom भर साथ gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 स्टोर्स विश्वव्यापी, साथ वैश्विक बिक्री of अरब in merchandise in 2011, and they lead the United States retail market in terms of sales per unit area.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor, best known as the co-founder, अध्यक्ष, और सीईओ of ठहराना Inc.
Through Apple, he was widely पहचाना as a charismatic पायोनियर of the निजी कंप्यूटर क्रान्ति और लिये उसके influential करियर in the कंप्यूटर and consumer electronics fields, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member of the board of directors of The Walt डिज़्नी कम्पनी in 2006, जब Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven graphical user interface, which led to the सृष्टि of the ठहराना लिसा और, one year later, the Macintosh.
He भी निभाई a भूमिका in introducing the LaserWriter, one of the first widely available laser printers, to the market.
After a power संघर्ष साथ the फलक of निर्देशकों in 1985, कार्य left Apple and founded NeXT, a computer platform development company specializing in the higher-education and business markets.
in 1986, he acquired the computer graphics division of Lucasfilm, which was spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in Toy Story ( 1995 ) as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता.
He served as सीईओ और बहुमत shareholder until Disney 's purchase of Pixar in 2006.
In 1996, after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system, copland, gil amelio turned to अगला कंप्यूटर, और the NeXTSTEP platform became the foundation for the Mac OS X.
Jobs returned to Apple as an advisor, and took control of the कम्पनी as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought Apple from near bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
As the new CEO of the company, Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac, iTunes, iPod, iPhone, and ipad, और on the सेवाएं पक्ष, the कम्पनी 's ठहराना Retail Stores, iTunes Store and the App Store.
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial रिटर्न, और propelled ठहराना to become the संसार 's most valuable publicly traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by many commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history.
In 2003, Jobs was diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a hormone imbalance, underwent a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On medical leave for most of 2011, Jobs resigned in अगस्त कि साल, and was elected Chairman of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest सम्बन्धित to उसके metastatic tumor on October 5, 2011.
Jobs प्राप्त a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the technology and music industries.
He has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '', and has been described as the `` Father of the Digital क्रान्ति '', a `` निपुण of नवीनता '', और a `` design perfectionist ''.
Entrance to खण्ड ( 52 ) of the Colosseum, with numerals still visible
Roman numerals, the numeric system in ancient रोम, उपयोग combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values.
The numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in रोमन numerals as follows:
और.
The रोमन numeral system is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
उपयोग of रोमन numerals continued after the decline of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was क्रमिक, और the उपयोग of रोमन numerals in कुछ नाबालिग applications continues to this day.
प्रभावी नाभिकीय Charge Diagram
The effective nuclear चार्ज ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive charge experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom.
The term `` effective '' is प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively चार्ज electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nuclear चार्ज अनुभवी by the बाहरी शेल electron is also called the core charge.
It is possible to determine the शक्ति of the nuclear charge by looking at the oxidation number of the atom.
This is a list of एपीसोड इससे the डिस्कवरी Channel series, Storm Chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, साथ दो गलियों in प्रत्येक direction separated by a large grassy median, and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National प्रणाली of अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली, Interstate Freeway System, Interstate System, or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States.
The प्रणाली is नामित for President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who championed its formation.
Construction थी प्राधिकृत by the संघीय सहायता Highway Act of 1956, and the original portion was completed 35 years later.
The network has since been extended, and, it had a total length of, making it the संसार 's दूसरी longest बाद चीन 's., about one-quarter of all vehicle miles driven in the country use the Interstate system.
The cost of construction has महरूम अनुमानित at $ 425 अरब ( in 2006 डॉलर ), making it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the United राज्य into a world economic superpower and a highly industrialized nation.
.eu is the country code top-level domain ( ccTLD ) for the यूरोपीय Union ( EU ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domain is उपलब्धियाँ लिये संगठनों in and residents of EU member states.
The TLD is administered by EURid, a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of Belgium, Sweden, and Italy, joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic.
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations through a सूर्योदय काल, in an प्रयत्न to prevent cybersquatting.
Full registration प्रारंभ on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in German ( as in master craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ).
The शब्द is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is used for the current national, यूरोपीय or संसार चैंपियन ( deutscher Meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern day German police शक्तियां उपयोग the शीर्षक Meister.
दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, Meister was the highest enlisted rank of the Ordnungspolizei.
Meister has been borrowed into अंग्रेज़ी कठबोली, where it is used in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “meister” is एक जो रै extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in his profession, business, or some other kind of work or activity.
For उदाहरण, a “puzzle-meister” would be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example, “stubble-meister” लिये किसी साथ a छोटी, neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power रेंजरों is an अमरीकी live-action children 's टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय teenagers with super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise, Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger.
Both the show and its सम्बन्धित merchandise देखी unbridled overnight success, becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months.
Under the original name, `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran from 1993 to 1995 and spawned the विशेषता फिल्मी mighty morphin Power Rangers : The Movie.
The second and third seasons of the show drew on फुटेज और तत्व इससे the Super Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively, though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि तभी the mecha इससे kakuranger यहूद प्रदर्शित in the तीसरा season.
However the Kakuranger costumes were later used for the title वर्ण of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers.
The series was produced by MMPR Productions, वितरित by saban entertainment, and aired on Fox Kids.
The show 's merchandise थी उत्पादित और distributed by Bandai Entertainment.
In 1996, the series थी rebranded as the शक्ति रेंजरों मताधिकार ; renaming the series every year after, and using costumes, props, and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as changing the cast and storyline.
While an overarching storyline would continue until Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, subsequent श्रेणी बाद MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
In 2010, a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, with a new logo, comic book-referenced graphics, and extra alternative खास प्रभाव, थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी बच्चे, और बंदाई उत्पादित ब्रांड नई खिलौने to coincide with the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849 ) was an American author, poet, editor and literary critic, considered भाग of the अमरीकी रोमांटिक गति.
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre, Poe was one of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the short story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre.
He is further credited साथ contributing to the emerging genre of science fiction.
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a जीना through लिखने alone, resulting in a financially difficult life and career.
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when उसके माँ died shortly बाद उसके father abandoned the family.
Poe was taken in by John and Frances allan, of रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, लकिन they never formally adopted him.
He attended the University of Virginia for one semester but left due to lack of money.
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at वेस्ट पाइंट, पो parted तरीके साथ the allans.
His publishing career began humbly, with an anonymous collection of poems, Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ), credited तभी to `` a bostonian ''.
Poe switched उसके फ़ोकस to गद्य और खर्च the अगला अनेक years working for literary journals and periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism.
His work मजबूर उसे to मूव among several cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he married Virginia Clemm, उसके 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 पो प्रकाशित उसके कविता, `` the रेवेन ``, to instant success.
His wife died of तपेदिक दो सालो after its publication.
He began planning to produce his own journal, the penn ( बाद renamed The Stylus ), though he died before it could be produced.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his death is अनजान और रै महरूम variously attributed to दारू, दिमाग जमघट, हैजा, drugs, heart disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States और around the संसार, as खूब as in specialized fields, such as cosmology and cryptography.
Poe and his work appear throughout popular संस्कृति in literature, music, films, and television.
A क्रमांक of उसके घरों are dedicated museums today.
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award known as the एडगर पुरस्कार लिये विशिष्ट work in the mystery genre.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to seven kilograms ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day.
A major component of their आहार is the flesh of large mammals, like this African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare meaning 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव कि गर्भाशयी इसके उर्जा और nutrient आवश्यकताएँ इससे a आहार consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores जबकि those कि भी consume non-animal खाना हैं considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food, and apart from the more general परिभाषा, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore कि sits at the top of the foodchain is an apex predator.
Plants that capture and digest insects हैं called carnivorous plants.
Similarly, fungi that capture microscopic animals are often called carnivorous fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the Second World War.
The current champions हैं स्पेन, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by आठ अलग नेशनल teams.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the तभी टोली to have निभाई in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Heroes is an American science fiction टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by टिम Kring that appeared on NBC for four seasons from September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The श्रेणी tells the stories of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities, and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic स्टाइल और storytelling of American comic books, using multi-episode story arcs that build upon a larger, more encompassing arc.
The series थी उत्पादित by tailwind Productions in association with Universal Media Studios.
It was filmed primarily in लॉस Angeles, California.
Four पूरा seasons aired, ending on February 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the संयुक्त राज्य, receiving the उच्चतम दरजा लिये an एनबीसी नाटक premiere in five years.
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S., and marked NBC 's sole series among the शीर्ष 20 क्रमित कार्यक्रम in कुल viewership for the 2007–2008 season.
Heroes has earned a number of पुरस्कार और nominations, सहित Primetime Emmy Awards, Golden Globes, People 's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards.
An online extension of the series, Heroes 360 Experience, later rebranded as Heroes evolutions, थी निर्मित to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology.
अन्य आधिकारिक नायक मीडिया include magazines, action figures, tie-in and interactive websites, a mobile game, a novel, clothing and other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, NBC Digital entertainment released a श्रेणी of ऑनलाइन सामग्री लिये the गर्मियाँ, सहित अधिक असली वेब सामग्री, बेतार iTV interactivity, graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes.
NBC announced नायक रद्दीकरण on May 14, 2010.
afterward, the संजाल माना making a television special event to conclude the series ; however, on September 9, 2010, NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise.
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of नायक storylines allowed for the franchise to return for fans, but he did not specify when or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, TV Line reported that MSN was in talks to revive the श्रेणी साथ a new cast.
John Pierpont `` J. P. ''
Morgan ( April 17, 1837 – कूच 31, 1913 ) थी an American financier, banker, philanthropist and art collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation during his time.
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक और thomson-houston Electric Company to form General Electric.
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company, he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company और अनेक अन्य स्टील और आयरन व्यवसायों, सहित संचित स्टील और तार कम्पनी owned by William Edenborn, to form the United States Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in Rome, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving his fortune and business to his son, John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan, Jr., and bequeathing his mansion and large book संग्रहण to the मॉर्गन पुस्तकालयों & Museum in New York.
At the ऊँचाई of मॉर्गन 's करियर दौरान the जल्दी 1900s, he and his partners had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He निर्देशित the बैंकिंग गठबन्धन that stopped the Panic of 1907.
He was the अग्रणी फाइनेंसर of the प्रगतिशील Era, and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform American business.
This is a सूची of एपीसोड of the television series.
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda and उत्पादित by the yggdrasil कार्यपालिका Committee which included Xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi, an immortal private investigator, as she explores the secrets of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the अलौकिक कार्यक्रम that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
There are large time gaps in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the first five episodes, ranging from one to thirty years.
The six episodes were broadcast monthly on AT-X channel in Japan, between फ़रवरी 3 और July 6, 2008.
प्रत्येक एपीसोड is 45 minutes long.
Two pieces of theme music are used for the episodes : the खोलने थीम `` alsatia '' and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed and performed by the Japanese metal बैंड galneryus.
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth वर्षगांठ of the AT-X network it originally aired on.
Aerial फ़ोटो of fletc, जहाँ US digital forensics standards were developed in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic science encompassing the recovery and छानबीन of सामग्री मिला in डिजिटल डिवाइस, प्रायः in relation to computer crime.
The term digital forensics was originally used as a पर्याय लिये कंप्यूटर forensics लकिन रै विस्तारित to cover investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data.
With जड़ें in the निजी computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s, the discipline evolved in a haphazard manner during the 1990s, and it was not until the early 21st century that national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a variety of applications.
The most common is to support or refute a hypothesis before दण्ड or सिविल ( as भाग of the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्कवरी process ) courts.
Forensics may also feature in the निजी सेक्टर ; ऐसे as दौरान आतंरिक कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into अनेक sub-branches, relating to the प्रकार of डिजिटल डिवाइस involved ; computer forensics, network forensics, forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics.
The ठेठ forensic प्रक्रम encompasses the seizure, forensic imaging ( acquisition ) and analysis of digital media and the production of a report into collected evidence.
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime, digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific suspects, confirm alibis or statements, determine intent, पहचानो स्त्रोत ( लिये उदाहरण, in कापीराइट मामले ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic analysis ( जहाँ the usual उद्देश्य is to provide जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by कुछ रंग स्पेसेस.
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of संख्याएँ, typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are color models ).
However, a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less arbitrary color system with no connection to any globally understood system of रंग निर्वचन.
Adding a certain mapping function between the color model and a certain reference color space परिणाम in a definite `` पदचिह्न '' within the reference color space.
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in संयोजन साथ the color model, defines a new color space.
For example, Adobe आरजीबी और srgb हैं दो अलग absolute color spaces, both based on the RGB model.
In the most generic sense of the definition above, color spaces can be defined बगैर the उपयोग of a रंग model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in effect a given नियत of names or संख्याएँ जिससे हैं पारिभाषित by the अस्तित्व of a corresponding set of physical color swatches.
This article focuses on the गणितीय model concept.
Labor Day is an American federal holiday observed on the first Monday in September, that मनाता the आर्थिक और सोशल contributions of workers.
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy होल्डर ) और an insurer, जहाँ the insurer वादे to pay a designated beneficiary a sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, अन्य कार्यक्रम such as terminal illness or critical illness may also trigger payment.
The policy holder typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump sum.
अन्य खर्च ( such as funeral expenses ) are also sometimes included in the benefits.
Life policies are legal contracts and the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe the सीमाएं of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to limit the देयता of the insurer ; आम examples are claims relating to suicide, fraud, war, riot and civil commotion.
life-based अनुबंध tend to पतन into two major categories:
सुरक्षा नीतियों – designed to provide a benefit in the event of specified event, typically a lump sum payment.
A common form of this design is पद insurance.
Investment policies – where the main objective is to facilitate the growth of पूंजी by नियमित or सिंगल प्रीमियम.
Common forms ( in the US ) are whole life, universal life और परिवर्तनीय जीवन नीतियों.
{ { Infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज New Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
mitzi gaynor donahue ( born may 2, 1962 in Yorba Linda, Orange County, California ) is an American actress, also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, most of which were not huge commercial successes.
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver, 1st & Ten, and as a प्रतियोगी on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international exposure with her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the other half of the दो `` sams '' लिये लगभग 5 सालो, cemented her popularity.
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo, Kapture gained global recognition along साथ उसके costar चूंकि the दिखाएँ थी broadcast in several countries.
Sergeant Lance eventually became Lieutenant Lance by the time Kapture left the श्रेणी in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time with the series, Kapture briefly sat in the director 's chair, लिये दो episodes.
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings Season 1 DVD which was distributed by Anchor Bay Entertainment and released in सितंबर 2004.
After a short hiatus from the screen following her exit from Silk Stalkings, Kapture returned in 1997 to the small स्क्रीन और यूएसए Network.
She played lead भूमिकाएँ in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies, Perfect Crime ( based on a true story, also called Hide and Seek : The Joanne Jensen Story ), which also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard.
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and थिएटर प्रोडक्शन्स और था अनेक टेलीविज़न अतिथि appearances.
kapture भी था a recurring role on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless इससे 2002 through 2004, जहाँ वो थी credited as mitzi Kapture Donahue, and starred in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
Her latest is a supporting role in परमेश्वर 's कानों, released in 2007.
Kapture is the official हस्ती प्रवक्ता लिये the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society.
The Xbox 360 is the second video game console विकसित by और उत्पादित लिये Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes with Sony 's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
As of September 30, 2012, 70 million एक्सबॉक्स 360 consoles have been sold worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12, 2005, with detailed launch and game information divulged later that month at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment एक्सपो ( E3 ).
The console sold out completely upon release in all regions मगर in जापानी.
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade games, game demos, trailers, TV shows, म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ मीडिया बीच मल्टीमीडिया capabilities.
The Xbox Live also offers access to various ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications.
At their E3 presentation on जून 14, 2010, Microsoft announced a redesigned Xbox 360 that would ship on the same day.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the पिछला एक्सबॉक्स 360 model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, TOSLINK S/PDIF optical audio output, five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port.
Older models of the Xbox 360 have चूंकि been discontinued.
The first new console to be released features a 250 gb मुश्किल ड्राइव, जबकि a बाद, कम महंगी SKU features 4 GB internal storage.
Backpack may also refer to a 2001 अनोखा by एमिली Barr
a modern backpack
Swiss फौज backpack ca. 1960
एकीकृत तुमको frame.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, पैक ) is, in its simplest form, a cloth sack carried on one 's back and secured with two straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on तभी एक कंधे strap.
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying भारी loads or carrying any sort of equipment, because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ), usually offload the largest भाग ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded हिप बेल्ट, leaving the कंधे straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the hips are stronger than the shoulders, and also increases agility and balance, since the load rides nearer the wearer 's अपना बीच of द्रव्यमान.
In ancient times, the backpack was used as a means to carry the hunter 's larger game and other types of शिकार और as a रास्ता of easier हस्तांतरण for other materials.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters होता dismember उनके शिकार और distribute the pieces of the animal around, each one packing the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs.
The bag itself थी बना up of अलग एनिमल छुपा और स्किन ( depending on कया sorts of पशु यहूद in the क्षेत्रफल ) and sewn together by the intestines of said animals, which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the United Mexican States ( ), is a federal constitutional republic in उत्तर America.
It is bordered on the north by the United राज्य ; on the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by the प्रशांत Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala, Belize, and the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ), Mexico is the fifth largest country in the Americas by total क्षेत्रफल और the 13th largest independent nation in the world.
With an estimated population of over 113 लाख, it is the संसार 's eleventh most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a संघ comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District, the capital city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced सभ्यताओं ऐसे as the olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the zapotec, the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans.
In 1521, Spain conquered और colonized the territory from its base in México-Tenochtitlan, which was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory would eventually become Mexico following recognition of the उपनिवेश 's स्वतंत्रता in 1821.
The post-independence काल थी characterized by आर्थिक अस्थिरता, the mexican-american War and territorial cession to the United States, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, which culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the देश 's वर्तमान राजनैतिक प्रणाली.
Elections held in July 2000 चिह्नित the पहला समय कि an opposition party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party.
Since 2006 the country has been in the midst of a ड्रग युद्ध जिससे रै caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico has one of the world 's largest economies, and is माना दोनो a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति और मध्य शक्ति.
In addition, Mexico was the first Latin American सदस्य of the संगठन for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since 1994 ), and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank.
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized देश और an emerging power.
It रै the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री व्यापार Agreement ( NAFTA ) partners, especially the United States of America.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites with 31, और in 2007 थी the दसवाँ सबसे visited देश in the संसार with 21.4 million international arrivals per year.
Babe Ruth holds the MLB career slugging प्रतिशत रिकार्ड (.690 ).
In baseball statistics, slugging percentage ( abbreviated SLG ) is a लोकप्रिय माप of the power of a hitter.
It is गणना as total bases divided by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a given player, and 1B, 2B, 3B, and HR हैं the क्रमांक of singles, युगल, तिगुना, and home runs, respectively.
सैर हैं specifically excluded from this calculation.
For example, in 1920, Babe Ruth played his first season for the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 युगल, 9 तिगुना, और 54 घर runs, which brings the total base count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, उसके slugging percentage for the season.
The next year he slugged.846, and these records went unbroken until 2001, जब बैरी bonds हासिल 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square ( now वर्गाकार एनिक्स ) लिये the सुपर निन्टेंडो entertainment System in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's विकास टोली शामिल three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game, Masato Kato wrote सबसे of the प्लाट, जबकि composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story follows a समूह of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe.
वर्गाकार re-released a ported संस्करण by tose in जापानी लिये Sony 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25, 2008, in North America and Japan, and went on sale in Australia on February 3, 2009 और in यूरोपीय on फ़रवरी 6, 2009.
The खेल थी never released in PAL territories before the Nintendo DS version.
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is माना आज to be एक of the महानतम video games of all time.
Nintendo शक्ति पत्रिका वर्णित पहलुओं of chrono ट्रिगर as क्रांतिकारी, सहित इसके अनेक endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character development, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling खेल of 1995, और the खेल 's snes और प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003.
The version for the Nintendo DS बेची 790,000 copies as of March 2009.
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones, Virtual Console, the PlayStation संजाल ( तभी in the यूएसए ), iOS devices, and Android devices.
बकरी चीज
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( इससे the फ्रेंच शब्द लिये बकरी ), is cheese made out of the milk of goats.
अतिताप is elevated देह तापमान due to failed thermoregulation that occurs when a body produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature उन्नयन तब becomes a medical emergency requiring immediate treatment to prevent disability or death.
The most आम कल्याणकारी include heat stroke and adverse reactions to drugs.
The पूर्व is an अधि तापमान उन्नयन caused by exposure to excessive heat, or combination of heat and humidity, that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many drugs, विशेषकर those कि affect the central nervous system.
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of कुछ प्रकार of सामान्य anesthesia.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the उपचार of कुछ kinds of cancer and other conditions, most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
अतिताप differs from fever in that the body 's temperature set point remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs when the temperature drops below कि जरूरी to maintain normal metabolism.
Belize, is a country located on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the only country in the area where English is the official language, although Kriol and स्पेनी हैं अधिक commonly बोला.
Belize is bordered on the north by Mexico, to the south and वेस्ट by ग्वाटेमाला और to the east by the Caribbean Sea.
Its mainland is about long और चौड़ी.
With of जमीन और a जनसांख्यिकी of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ), Belize possesses the lowest population density in Central America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the दूसरी उच्चतम in the प्रदेश and one of the highest in the western hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species, and its diversity of ecosystems give it a key place भीतर the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Belize has a diverse समाज, comprising अनेक संस्कृतियों and languages.
It is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage, but as a part of the Western Caribbean Zone, it also shares a आम विरासत साथ the fellow anglophone Caribbean countries.
In general, Belize is considered to be a Central American and Caribbean nation with strong ties to दोनो the caribbean और लैटिन अमेरिका.
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States ( CELAC ), and Central American Integration System ( सिका ).
Belize is known for its September Celebrations, and is the birthplace of चबाने गम और punta चट्टान.
The `` Betsy Ross '' ध्वज
A `` Betsy Ross '' ध्वज उड़ती बाहर San Francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an जल्दी डिज़ाइन of the ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य, popularly attributed to Betsy Ross, using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
The flag was designed during the American Revolution and सुविधाएँ 13 सितारों to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive feature of the रॉस ध्वज is the व्यवस्था of the stars in a circle.
Although the बेट्सी रॉस story is accepted by most Americans, some flag historians and revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American flag.
According to the परंपरागत खाता, the original flag was made in June 1776, when a small committee—including George Washington, Robert Morris and relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag, altering the कमेटी 's डिज़ाइन by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars.
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable, the flag design is known to have been in use by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड b. गली वर्णित it at the आत्मसमर्पण of सामान्य Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form, its likeness appears on पुरानी शारीरिक अरबिंदो, namely, the समकालीन रणभूमि paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale.
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown from ship masts and many other स्थान, और यूँ provide the पहला ज्ञात ऐतिहासिक दस्तावेज़ीकरण of the flag 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses the Betsy Ross flag to represent service to all दिग्गजों इससे the अमरीकी क्रान्ति to the present day.
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags रै महरूम प्रदर्शित in अनेक लोकप्रिय artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films, such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be one of the most popular symbols of the American Revolution.
A purr is a ध्वनि बना by सब species of felids and is a part of cat communication.
It varies between cats ( for example by loudness और टोन ), और इससे प्रजाति to species, but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
The term `` purring '' has महरूम प्रयुक्त liberally in साहित्य, और it रै महरूम claimed कि viverrids ( civet, mongoose, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
अन्य पशु कि have महरूम कहा to purr हैं rabbits, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a strict परिभाषा of purring कि निरन्तर ध्वनि उत्पादन जरूर वैकल्पिक between pulmonic egressive और ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for minutes ), Peters ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature, reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, सहित तस्मानिया.
Together with the four species of echidna, it is one of the five extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the तभी स्तनधारियों कि lay अंडे instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a number of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists when they first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
it is एक of the few विषैला mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an महत्वपूर्ण विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण Wales.
जबतक the जल्दी 20th सदी, it was hunted for its fur, but it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is नहीं अंतर्गत कोई तात्कालिक threat.
St. Elizabeth is a गाँव in Miller County, Missouri, United States.
The population was 336 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in sacramento काउंटी, California, United States.
It is part of the sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up इससे 4,551 at the 2000 census.
In human-computer interaction, cut and paste and copy and paste are related commands that offer a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text, data, फाइलें or वस्तुएँ इससे a सोर्स to a गंतव्य.
Most ubiquitously, users require the क्षमता to काटें और paste sections of plain text.
The cut command removes the selected data from its original स्थिति, जबकि the नक़ल कमांड creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the चयनित data is placed in a clipboard.
The data in the clipboard is later inserted in the position where the paste command is issued.
The कमांड names हैं an इंटरफ़ेस metaphor based on the physical procedure used in manuscript editing to create a page layout.
This interaction technique has close associations with related techniques in graphical user अंतरफलक कि उपयोग इंगित डिवाइस ऐसे as a कंप्यूटर चूहा ( by खीचें और drop, for example ).
Economic order quantity is the अनुक्रम मात्रा कि minimizes total inventory holding costs and ordering costs.
It is one of the oldest शास्त्रीय उत्पादन scheduling models.
The framework used to determine this order quantity is also known as barabas eoq मॉडल or barabas सूत्र.
The model was developed by Ford W. हैरिस in 1913, लकिन R. H. विल्सन, a सलाहकार जो लागू it extensively, is given credit for his in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
Together with drummer क्रिस layton और bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके एल्बम frequently went gold.
He थी born और raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a short period of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in लोकल nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped आउट of ऊँची school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining groups such as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the ध्यान of संगीतकारों David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer John हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the समूह released the एल्बम, could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and earned them a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a प्रदर्शन in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues संगीतकारों सहित अल्बर्ट किंग, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and Muddy Waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He was मरणोपरांत inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the राज्य of Texas.
The Las Vegas Strip World of coca-cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
the कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब बेचें, वितरित और merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, जिससे is the largest सिंगल Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और खाना सेवा distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced अन्य कोला पेय अंतर्गत the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special संस्करण साथ नीबू, लाइम or कॉफी.
Based on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
Barry Louis Larkin ( born April 28, 1964 ) is a retired Major League बेसबॉल खिलाड़ी.
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 और थी एक of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team.
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall of कीर्ति in जनवरी 2012 और थी inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered one of the top players of his era, winning nine Silver Slugger पुरस्कार और तीन सुनहरा दस्ताने पुरस्कार.
He was चयनित to the प्रमुख लीग all-star Game twelve times, and was elected the 1995 National League Most Valuable Player.
brasília ( ) is the संघीय पूंजी of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District.
Administratively, the नगर is located in the Federal District which is in the Central-West Region.
Physically, it is located in the Brazilian हाइलैंड्स.
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) as of the 2008 ibge अनुमान, बनाना it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
However, as a metropolitan area, it बाँधने निम्नतर at छठे in जनसांख्यिकी.
Brasília is the largest city in the संसार कि किया नहीं मौजूद at the beginning of the 20th century.
Brasília has the fifth largest जीडीपी among लैटिन अमरीकी cities and the third in Brazil.
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US डॉलर or €23,000 euros ), the नगर 's प्रति capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities.
As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the संघीय सरकारी of ब्राज़ील.
The city also hosts the headquarters of many ब्राज़ीलियाई कंपनियाँ.
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas, as well as building the city around large avenues और dividing it into सेक्टर, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities, such as the होटल सेक्टर, the बैंकिंग Sector or the Embassy Sector.
Brasília hosts 124 विदेशी embassies.
The city थी नियोजित and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner, Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's World Hertitage सूची due to इसके वास्तुकला.
On April 22, 1960, it formally became Brazil 's national capital.
viewed इससे ऊपर, the प्रमुख portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly.
The city is commonly referred to as Capital Federal, or simply BSB.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those नहीं born in the नगर लकिन जो migrated there after it was established ).
In local usage, the शब्द `` brasília '' प्रायः refers only to the First Administrative Region ( RA I ) within the Federal District ( Distrito Federal ), where the most important government buildings are located.
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an प्रशासनिक division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is almost सदा प्रयुक्त synonymously with the Federal District, which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit, analogous to a state.
Several `` उपग्रह शहरों '' exist which are also part of the Federal District.
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to सब प्रमुख ब्राज़ीलियाई शहरों और अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय destinations.
it is the तीसरा सबसे महत्वपूर्ण विमानक्षेत्र in Brazil, in terms of passengers and aircraft movements.
Personifications of Germany, France, Russia, austria-hungary, और the संयुक्त किंगडम attempting to रखना the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war.
They were successful in 1912 and 1913 but did not सफल in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918, included many factors, such as the विरोध और दुश्मनी of the four decades leading up to the war.
सैन्यवाद, alliances, साम्राज्यवाद, and nationalism played major roles in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914, casus belli लिये जिससे थी the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड ( the Archduke of Austria Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip, an irredentist Serb.
The crisis came after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between the ग्रेट शक्तियां ( इटली, फ़्रांस, जर्मनी, the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, the austria-hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn these diplomatic clashes can be traced to changes in the संतुलन of power in Europe since 1867.
the अधिक तात्कालिक कारण for the war was tensions over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed साथ सर्बिया और रूस लिये territory and influence in the region and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war, the war 's origins go deeper, involving national politics, cultures, economics, and a जटिल वेब of alliances और counterbalances कि था विकसित between the various European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate system of alliances, the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe, convoluted and fragmented governance, the arms races of the previous decades, previous military planning, imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth, power और प्रतिष्ठा, और आर्थिक और सैन्य फंसने in उद्योग और व्यापार – e.g., the सुअर युद्ध between ऑस्ट्रिया और सर्बिया.
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the जर्मनी विश्वास कि the संयुक्त किंगडम होता remain neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications.
the विभिन्न categories of explanation for World War I correspond to different historians ' overall methods.
Most historians and popular commentators शामिल कल्याणकारी इससे अधिक than one category of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between कहानियां कि देखिए it as the अपरिहार्य और predictable निष्कर्ष of certain factors, and those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, इतिहासकारों और लड था to सौदे साथ an unprecedented flood of memoirs and official documents, released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war.
Early releases of information by governments, विशेषकर those released लिये उपयोग by the `` आयोग on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and biased.
In addition some documents, especially राजनयिक केबल between रूस और France, were found to have been doctored.
Even in later decades however, when much more information had been released, historians from the same culture have been दिखाया to आइये to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
जॉनसन 's नई chart of national emblems, published c. 1868.
The large flags shown in the corners are the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal मानक of the संयुक्त किंगडम, the Russian Imperial Standard, and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle.
Various other flags flown by जहाजों हैं दिखाया.
The Flag of क्यूबा is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn mistakenly as a western ड्रैगन.
A national flag is a flag that symbolizes a देश.
the ध्वज is flown by the government, but usually can also be flown by citizens of the country.
Both public and private buildings such as स्कूलों और courthouses may fly the national flag.
In some countries, the national flags are only flown from non-military इमारतें on निश्चित ध्वज दिनों.
There are three distinct types of national flag for use on जमीन, और तीन for use at sea, though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag.
The American Civil War ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war था इसके उत्पत्ति in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
आठ बाकी slave states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their पश्चिमी सेना, और the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of सब संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा industrial wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Norrie disease is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the नजर और लगभग सदा leads to blindness.
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms, some patients suffer इससे a प्रगतिशील सुनना घाटा starting ज़्यादातर in उनके 2nd दशक of जीवन, जबकि another portion may be mentally challenged.
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear white when light is shone on them ), along with other developmental मुद्दे in the नजर, ऐसे as shrinking of the ग्लोब और the बर्बाद दूर of the आईरिस.
Around 30–50 % of उन्हें होगा भी have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like features, incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities.
Most patients are born साथ सामान्य सुनना ; however, the onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence.
About 15 % of the मरीजों हैं estimated to develop all the features of the disease.
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon after birth, because the बीमारी is inherited x-linked recessive.
Only in बहुत विरल मामले, महिलाओं have been diagnosed with Norrie disease as well.
The exact incidence number is अनजान ; तभी a few hundred cases have been reported so far.
It is a very rare disorder that is not संबद्ध साथ कोई विशिष्ट ethnic or racial groups.
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of कुछ or सब of ये तत्व may be done in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, जिससे हैं वृहद than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The पार्टियों may be natural persons or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking कि कुछ होगा or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for अनुबंध, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one क्षेत्राधिकार to another, सहित मतभेद in common law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / नेशनल ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts लिये the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बिक्री of goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed for Web विकास to उपज dynamic Web pages.
It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, web applications and web services.
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the.NET Framework, and is the successor to Microsoft 's Active सर्वर पृष्ठों ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the आम भाषा runtime ( clr ), allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to write ASP.NET code using any supported.NET language.
The ASP.NET SOAP extension फ्रेमवर्क allows asp.net components to process SOAP messages.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline परिवार, खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव जिससे can शामिल altered सोच processes, closed and open eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is used mainly as an entheogen, recreational drug, and as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is not known to cause दिमाग क्षति, और रै अत्यधिक low toxicity relative to dose.
However, प्रतिकूल मनोरोग reactions such as anxiety, paranoia, and delusions are possible.
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine, a chemical derived by Arthur Stoll from ergot, a grain fungus that typically grows on rye.
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early code name LSD-25, जिससे is an संक्षिप्त लिये the जर्मनी `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is sensitive to oxygen, ultraviolet light, and क्लोराइड, विशेषकर in समाधान, हालांकि इसके potency may पिछला लिये years if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature.
In pure रूप it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, usually on a substrate such as absorbent blotter पेपर, a शुगर cube, or gelatin.
In its liquid रूप, it can भी be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) होने the दहलीज dose.
नई प्रयोग with LSD started in 2009 for the first time in 40 years.
introduced by sandoz laboratories, साथ trade-name delysid, as a drug with various psychiatric uses in 1947, LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) thought the drug might be applicable to दिमाग कंट्रोल और रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's mkultra शोध कार्यक्रम propagated the drug among young servicemen and students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक firestorm कि resulted in its prohibition.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation, MAPS, Heffter Research संस्थान और the अल्बर्ट hofmann foundation—exist to fund, encourage and coordinate research into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's Sea, Air, Land Teams, commonly known as the Navy SEALs, are the U.S. Navy 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स और a भाग of the नवल खास warfare कमांड और United States Special Operations Command.
`` SEAL '' is always capitalized in सन्दर्भ to सदस्यों of the नवल Special Warfare community.
The acronym is derived from their capacity to operate at sea, in the एयर, और on जमीन.
SEALs are male members of the संयुक्त राज्य Navy.
An exchange program with the Coast Guard, which graduated three Coast guardsmen as seals, थी suspended in 2011.
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits ऑपरेटर इससे the मुहर Teams.
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go back to the famed macv-sog दौरान the Vietnam War.
This cooperation still exists आज और is देखी in the युद्धों in इराकी और अफगानिस्तान, and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, नारंगी, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
the संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the total number of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates कि the संसार population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
the संसार population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 लाख, जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ, and energy resources.
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the u.S. राज्य of टेनेसी, और the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff, south of the संगम of the भेड़िया और मिसिसिपी rivers.
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee, the largest city on the Mississippi River, the third largest in the Southeastern United States, and the 20th largest in the United States.
The greater Memphis metropolitan area, including adjacent counties in Mississippi and अरकंसास, था a 2010 population of 1,316,100.
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area in Tennessee, surpassed only by metropolitan Nashville, which रै overtaken मेम्फिस in हाल years.
मेम्फिस is the youngest of Tennessee 's major cities.
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian, and the Memphis region is known, विशेषकर to मीडिया आउटलेट, as `` Memphis & The Mid-South ``.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in France.
France produces around तीन quarters of its electricity by nuclear power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by 2022, in a नीति reversal following जापानी 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 रिएक्टरों हैं under construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in तीस countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational प्रति साल, हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, जर्मनी and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, liechtenstein, ध्वज, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the इंसान anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples range इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी from the standard anatomical position.
In other positions, other क्रियाएँ may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at Fort फोस्टर, 1837 ( at Hillsborough River State Park )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, यहूद तीन विरोध in फ्लोरिडा between the seminole — the सामूहिक name given to the amalgamation of various groups of native Americans and Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army.
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although स्त्रोत differ ), the दूसरी seminole War from 1835 to 1842, and the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858.
The first conflict with the Seminoles arose out of tensions relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू जैक्सन 's आक्रमण और विनाश of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816.
Jackson also attacked the स्पेनी at pensacola.
Ultimately, the Spanish Crown ceded the colony to United States rule.
orono is a कस्बा in penobscot County, Maine, United States.
It was first settled in 1774 and named in सम्मान of मुख्य जोसेफ Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
It is home to the विश्वविद्यालयों of Maine.
The population was 10,362 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
दृश्य of the pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and casino on the लास Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story होटल, स्वामित्व और संचालित by MGM Resorts International, has a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a नई, अत्यधिक आधुनिकीकरण, और समकालीन design and contains a total of 4,400 rooms, including 442 suites, lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions.
The hotel is named after the city of Luxor ( ancient Thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas ( the largest being the MGM ग्रैंड ) और the आठवीं largest in the world.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the Green Key eco-rating कार्यक्रम, जिससे evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot study, is a small scale प्रारंभिक पढ़ाई conducted in अनुक्रम to evaluate feasibility, समय, लागत, प्रतिकूल कार्यक्रम, और प्रभाव आकार ( सांख्यिकीय variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project.
Pilot studies, इसलिए, may not be appropriate for case studies.
The Los Angeles Fire विभाग ( lafd ) is the एजेंसी कि provides fire protection and emergency medical services for the city of Los Angeles.
It may be unofficially referred to as the लॉस एंजिल्स नगर आग विभाग to फर्क it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department.
The acre is a unit of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – slightly smaller than an American football field.
The acre is no longer commonly प्रयुक्त, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद include the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still प्रयुक्त, to कुछ extent, in Canada.
The international प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, और is defined as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly used एकड़ आज is the international acre.
In the United States both the international acre and the थोड़ा different US survey acre are in use.
The most common use of the एकड़ is to माप tracts of land.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार मीटर.
During the Middle Ages, an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day साथ a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American people and its language:
pawnee people
Pawnee भाषा
Pawnee is also the नाम of several places in the United States:
pawnee, Illinois
Pawnee, कान्सास
Pawnee City, नेब्रास्का
Pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, Texas
Pawnee नेशनल घासभूमि, Colorado
Pawnee Township ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee County ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee may also refer to:
Piper pa-25 pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 pawnee, प्रायोगिक aircraft
pawnee, इंडियाना ( fictional नगर ) the fictional setting of the NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation.
Broca 's and wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate ideas and जज्बात, और कैसा ऐसे communications are processed and understood.
Thus it is कैसा the दिमाग creates and understands language.
सबसे हाल theories consider that this process is carried out entirely by and inside the brain.
This is considered one of the most characteristic abilities of the इंसान प्रजाति - शायद the most characteristic.
However very little is known about it and there is huge scope for research on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury, whether external ( wounds, बुलेट ) or आतंरिक ( strokes, tumors, degenerative diseases ).
Studies have shown that सबसे of the भाषा प्रसंस्करण कृत्यों हैं carried आउट in the cerebral cortex.
The अनिवार्य फलन of the cortical language areas is symbolic representation.
Even though language exists in different फ़ॉर्म, सब of उन्हें हैं based on symbolic representation.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car, designed और विकसित by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the संसार, साथ a शीर्ष गति of.
The original version has a top speed of.
It was named Car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best car चलित सब Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport vitesse, reaching on औसत a शीर्ष speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special variants have महरूम उत्पादित.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
DVD is an optical disc storage format, invented और विकसित by फिलिप्स, सोनी, तोशिबा, and Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs offer higher भंडार क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs while having the same dimensions.
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding machines कि physically stamp data onto the DVD.
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM, क्युकी आंकड़ा can तभी be read and not written nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM. rewritable dvds ( dvd-rw, dvd+rw, and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple times.
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer डिजिटल ऑडियो स्वरूप, as खूब as लिये authoring AVCHD discs.
DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as DVD data discs.
What chilli wants is an अमरीकी reality series on VH1 starring Chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC.
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of Tionna T. Smalls, an author and संबंध coach.
The series premiered on April 11, 2010, और रै चूंकि been renewed for a second season.
The second ऋतु premiered on संडे, January 2, 2011.
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8, 1985 ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम ब्रूनो Mars, is an American singer-songwriter and record producer.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of musicians, Mars began बनाना म्यूज़िक at a यंग आयु and performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from high स्कूल और तब स्थानांतरित to Los Angeles, California, to pursue a musical career.
मंगल उत्पादित गीतों for other artists, joining production team The Smeezingtons.
मंगल था an unsuccessful stint with Motown Records, but then signed with Atlantic in 2009.
He became recognized as a सोलो कलाकार बाद lending उसके vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the हिट्स `` सही Round `` by Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha, and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
In October 2010, he released his debut album, Doo-Wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं `` और `` ग्रेनेड ``, the एल्बम peaked at number three on the Billboard 200.
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, winning Best Male Pop Vocal Performance लिये `` बस the रास्ता तुम Are ''.
His second studio album, Unorthodox Jukebox, थी released on दिसम्बर 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide किस्में of शैलियाँ and influences, and contains elements of many musical genres.
He has worked with an assortment of कलाकारों इससे various genres.
As a child, he was highly influenced by artists such as Little Richard, Elvis Presley and माइकल जैक्सन और होता प्रायः impersonate ये कलाकारों from a young age.
Mars also incorporates रेगी - और motown -inspired sounds into his work.
Worldwide, मंगल became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He had three singles in the शीर्ष टेन, सहित first place with `` Just the Way You Are '', which sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars won Best International Male सोलो कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट Awards.
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums and 40 million singles worldwide as a सिंगर.
Althought as a song-writer, producer and सिंगर उसके कुल सिंगल डाउनलोड बिक्री surpass 100 million worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, Otricoli ( Sala रोटोंडा, museo pio-clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the देह of मिथकों और शिक्षाओं कि belong to the प्राचीन Greeks, concerning their gods and heroes, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices.
It was a part of the religion in प्राचीन यूनानियों और is भाग of धर्म in modern Greece and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of Ancient Greece and its सभ्यता, और to लाभ समझना of the प्रकृति of myth-making itself.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a विशाल संग्रहण of कहानियां, और implicitly in Greek representational arts, such as vase-paintings and votive gifts.
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the जीवनदान और adventures of a wide variety of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, and mythological creatures.
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek साहित्य.
The oldest known Greek literary sources, Homer 's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey, focus on कार्यक्रम surrounding the Trojan War.
Two poems by Homer 's near समकालीन hesiod, the Theogony and the Works and Days, contain accounts of the genesis of the world, the succession of divine rulers, the succession of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the origin of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth century BC, in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों और कवियों of the hellenistic आयु, और in ग्रन्थ इससे the समय of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological findings provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology, with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
ज्यामितीय डिजाइन on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles.
In the succeeding archaic, शास्त्रीय, और hellenistic अवधि, homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the संस्कृति, कला, और साहित्य of पश्चिमी civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language.
Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and have खोजा समकालीन significance and relevance in the themes.
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
Mouth & macneal थी a pop duo from the Netherlands.
They are best known for their million selling रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कैसा Do You Do ``.
The Boise State Broncos football program represents Boise State University in college football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( fbs ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference.
They are currently led by head coach Chris Petersen and play उनके घर खेल at Bronco Stadium.
The franc ( sign : Fr. or SFr. ; German : Franken, French and Romansh : franc, Italian : franco ; code : CHF ) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also विधिक टेंडर in the इतालवी exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक करेंसी is the यूरोपियन ), it is in wide daily use there.
The Swiss नेशनल बैंको मुद्दे banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins.
The Swiss franc is the only संस्करण of the फ़्रैंक स्टिल जारी in Europe.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a rappen ( rp. ) in जर्मनी, centime ( c. ) in फ्रेंच, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
The ISO code of the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by बैंको और वित्तीय संस्थानों is CHF, although `` Fr. '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr. ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different languages used in Switzerland, Latin is used लिये language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
Sir Charles स्पेंसर `` चार्ली '' चैपलिन, ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era.
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his screen persona `` the Tramp `` और is माना एक of the most important figures of the film industry.
His career spanned more than 75 सालो, इससे a चाइल्ड in the Victorian era to close to his death at the age of 88, and encompassed both adulation and controversy.
उठाया in लंदन, चैपलिन 's childhood was defined by poverty and hardship.
He was sent to a workhouse twice पहले the आयु of नौ ; उसके पिता was absent, and his mother was committed to a mental asylum.
Chaplin began performing इससे a young age, touring music halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian.
At 19 he was signed to the prestigious फ्रेड Karno company, which took him to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the फिल्मी उद्योग, और बना उसके first appearances in 1914 with Keystone Studios.
He soon विकसित the Tramp persona and formed a large fan base.
Chaplin directed his films from an early stage, and continued to hone his craft as he moved to the Essanay, परस्पर, और पहला नेशनल corporations.
By 1918, he थी एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध men in the world.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the distribution company United Artists, giving him complete कंट्रोल over उसके films.
His first feature-length चित्र थी the बच्चा ( 1921 ), followed by A Woman of Paris ( 1923 ), The Gold Rush ( 1925 ), and The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, बजाय producing नगर लाइट्स ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly political and his next फिल्मी, the ग्रेट तानाशाह ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf Hitler.
The 1940s was a decade marked with विवाद लिये चैपलिन, and his popularity declined rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, while his involvement in a paternity suit and विवाह to much younger महिलाओं यहूद माना scandalous.
An FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin, and he was eventually forced to छोड़ the संयुक्त राज्य और settle in स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
He abandoned the Tramp लिये उसके बाद films, जिससे शामिल Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), Limelight ( 1952 ), A King in New York ( 1957 ), and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, निर्देशित, उत्पादित, संपादित, scored, and starred in most of his films.
He was a perfectionist, and his financial independence meant he often spent years on the development और उत्पादन of a चित्र.
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos, and often feature the Tramp struggling विरूद्ध adversity.
अनेक contain social and political themes, as well as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as part of a renewed appreciation for his work, Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in बनाना गति तस्वीरें the आर्ट रूप of इस सदी ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, साथ the सुनहरा फटाफट, नगर लाइट्स, आधुनिक टाइम्स, और the ग्रेट Dictator often ranked among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood, is the U.S. affiliate of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood संघ ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive स्वास्थ्य and maternal and child health services.
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund, Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization which lobbies for pro-choice legislation, comprehensive sex शिक्षा, और अभिगम to सस्ती health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health services, including cancer screening, HIV screening और counseling, निरोधक, and abortion.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total services and abortions account for 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions प्रत्येक साल, among 3 लाख लोगों परोसा.
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn, New York, where मार्गरेट सैंगर खोली the देश 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921, जिससे in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned Parenthood has grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक स्थितियाँ in the u.S., with a total budget of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million people in the United States, and supports सेवाएं लिये over एक लाख क्लाइंट बाहर the संयुक्त States.
पुरुषों rea is लैटिन for `` guilty mind ''.
in दण्ड law, it is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the लैटिन phrase, actus गैर facit reum nisi पुरुषों बैठना rea, जिससे अर्थात् `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due प्रक्रम, वहीँ जरूर be an actus reus, or `` अपराधी अधिनियम, '' accompanied by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ).
As a general rule, criminal liability does नहीं संलग्न to a व्यक्ति जो acted साथ the absence of mental fault.
The exception is strict देयता crimes.
in सिविल विधि, it is प्रायः नहीं necessary to prove a subjective mental element to establish liability for breach of contract or tort, for example.
However, if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached, such intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the माप of क्षतिपूर्ति देय to the अभियोक्ता.
Therefore, mens rea refers to the mental element of the अपराध कि accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the शर्तें mens rea and actus reus have been replaced by alternative terminology.
In Australia, for example, the elements of the संघीय offences हैं अभी designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( mens rea ) and `` physical elements '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ).
इस शब्दावली was adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms with simple and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following उसके अत्यधिक कामयाब role as a war general in the second half of the Civil War.
Under Grant, the Union Army defeated the Confederate सैन्य ; having effectively ended the war and secession with the surrender of Robert E. Lee 's army at Appomattox.
As president he led the कट्टरपंथी republicans in their effort to eliminate all vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery.
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having desired to protect अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी नागरिकता, President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871.
Grant was the first President to establish Civil Service reform having created a two-year federally वित्तपोषित सिविल सेवा आयोग in 1871.
In terms of foreign policy, Grant नाज़िल an `` अनपेक्षित क्षमता लिये deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees, and by America 's first industrial age economic अवसाद ( पुकारा the `` दहशत of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term.
Although his रिपब्लिकन पार्टी विभाजित in 1872 with reformers denouncing him, Grant was easily reelected.
By 1875 the रूढ़िवादी श्वेत दक्षिणी विपक्ष regained control of every state in the South and as he left the White House in March 1877 his policies were being undone.
A career soldier, he graduated from the United States Military Academy at वेस्ट पाइंट and served in the Mexican–American War.
When the सिविल युद्ध began in 1861, ग्रान्ट trained Union volunteer regiments in Illinois.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of battles and was promoted to major general after forcing the surrender of a large confederate फौज और gaining कंट्रोल of केंटकी and most of Tennessee.
He then led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh, कमाई a प्रतिष्ठा as an आक्रामक कमांडर.
In July 1863, after a long, complex campaign, Grant defeated five uncoordinated Confederate armies ( capturing एक of उन्हें ) और जब्त vicksburg.
This famous victory gave the Union full कंट्रोल of the मिसिसिपी नदी, विभाजित बंद the western Confederacy, and opened the way for more Union triumphs.
बाद another जीत at the बैटल of चट्टानूगा in लेट 1863, President Abraham Lincoln made him lieutenant general and commander of all of the Union Armies.
As commanding general of the army, Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of ली at पीटर्सबर्ग, बाहर the confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns launched by William Tecumseh Sherman, फिलिप Sheridan, and George Thomas.
Finally breaking through Lee 's trenches, the Union Army captured रिचमंड in April 1865.
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to Grant at appomattox as the confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर कसाई who won by brute force, most historians have hailed his military genius.
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President stabilized the nation after the American सिविल युद्ध और दौरान the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed.
As president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing सिविल rights laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan violence.
Grant won passage of the पंद्रहवीं amendment ; giving संवैधानिक protection for African-American voting rights.
He used the army to build the Republican Party in the South, based on black voters, Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) और देशी श्वेत समर्थक ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a result, African अमेरिकी यहूद represented in the U.S. Congress for the first time in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations, and his enlistment of quaker protestants जो नियंत्रित मिड पश्चिमी भारतीय एजेंसियों, कि effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
Grant remained determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated इससे श्वेत settler अतिक्रमण or by the U.S. military.
Grant 's प्रतिष्ठा as अध्यक्ष by 1875 थी at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation Bill, the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act, and Secretary Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय मध्यस्थता, settled the अलबामा दावा साथ Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair.
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing device, usually a coin-operated machine, that will खेल a संरक्षक 's चयन इससे self-contained media.
The क्लासिक ज्यूकबॉक्स रै बटन साथ अक्षर और numbers on them that, when entered in combination, are used to play a specific selection.
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, रक्त, स्वेद, or मौखिक द्रव / लार – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by कानून, ऐसे as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
A `` 10-panel मूत्र स्क्रीन '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( सहित Methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine, मॉरफीन, Heroin, Oxycodone, Hydrocodone, etc. )
phencyclidine ( PCP )
propoxyphene
शनि v rocket, used for the American manned lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery and exploration of बाहरी स्पेस by अर्थात् of स्पेस technology.
Physical exploration of space is conducted both by human spaceflights और by रोबोटिक spacecraft.
While the observation of objects in space, known as astronomy, predates reliable recorded history, it was the विकास of विशाल और अपेक्षाकृत कुशल rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing वैज्ञानिक शोध, uniting different nations, ensuring the future survival of humanity and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries.
Various criticisms of space खोजी are sometimes made.
Space खोजी रै प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी प्रतियोगिता for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War.
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States, the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth, the USSR 's Sputnik 1, on 4 October 1957, and the first चंद्रमा लैंडिंग by the अमरीकी Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period.
The Soviet स्पेस कार्यक्रम हासिल अनेक of the पहला माइलस्टोन, सहित the पहला जीना होने in कक्षा in 1957, the पहला इंसान spaceflight ( यूरी गगारिन सवार वोस्तोक 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, focus shifted from one-off flights to renewable hardware, such as the Space Shuttle कार्यक्रम, और इससे प्रतियोगिता to सहयोग as with the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial completion of the ISS following sts-133 in कूच 2011, plans for space exploration by the USA remain in flux.
Constellation, a Bush Administration program for a return to the चंद्रमा by 2020 थी judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009.
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the capability for crewed missions beyond low earth orbit ( LEO ), envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the iss परे 2020, transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector, and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the US सीनेट और हाउस of Representatives are still working towards a compromise NASA funding bill, which will probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the People 's Republic of China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program, while the यूरोपीय संघ, जापानी, और इण्डिया have भी नियोजित भविष्य मानवयुक्त space missions.
China, Russia, Japan, and India have advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा दौरान the 21st century, while the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century.
From the 1990s onwards, निजी रूचि began promoting space tourism and then private space exploration of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ).
John Calvin Coolidge, Jr. ( July 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) थी the 30th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A Republican lawyer from Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the सीढ़ियाँ of मैसाचुसेट्स राज्य राजनीती, आखिरकार becoming governor of that state.
His conduct during the Boston पुलिस स्ट्राइक of 1919 thrust उसे into the national spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action.
Soon after, he was elected as the 29th Vice President in 1920 और succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon the अचानक मौत of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his own right in 1924, he gained a reputation as a small-government रूढ़िवादी, और भी as a man जो कहा बहुत छोटी.
Coolidge restored public confidence in the White House बाद the घोटालों of उसके पूर्ववर्ती 's administration, and left office with considerable popularity.
As a Coolidge biographer put it, `` He embodied the spirit and hopes of the middle class, could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस उनके opinions.
That he did represent the genius of the average is the most convincing प्रमाण of उसके शक्ति. ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as part of a general criticism of laissez-faire सरकारी.
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration, but the ultimate assessment of his presidency is still विभाजित between those जो स्वीकृति of उसके कटौती of the आकार of सरकारी कार्यक्रम and those who believe the federal government should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy.
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly खौलते जल अंतर्गत दबाव through finely ground coffee beans.
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a higher विशेषज्ञता of निलंबित और dissolved solids, and crema ( meaning cream, but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ).
as a परिणाम of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the जायका और रसायन in a ठेठ कप of एस्प्रेसो हैं बहुत concentrated.
Espresso is the base for other drinks, such as a latte, cappuccino, macchiato, मोचा, or americano.
Espresso has more कैफीन प्रति ईकाई आवाज़ than most beverages, but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
Brian Keith Kelly ( born October 25, 1961 ) is an American फ़ुटबॉल कोच and former player.
He is currently the सिर फ़ुटबॉल coach for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, a position he has held since December 2009.
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003 ), Central Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ), and University of सिनसिनाटी ( 2006–2009 ).
A contract is an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in writing, हालांकि अनुबंध may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The उपाय लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural persons or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking कि something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a वादा may नहीं have the पूरा खड़ा of a अनुबंध, as जब it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from England in common law countries, and of law codified in क्षेत्रीय legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल ) स्तर, और an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts लिये the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Sale of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ONS ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the Quebec Major जूनियर हॉकी लीग ( qmjhl ).
During his two-year major junior career साथ the rimouski océanic, he अर्जित back-to-back chl Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final.
Nicknamed `` The Next One ``, he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in हॉकी इतिहास, अग्रणी अनेक to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट लॉटरी as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his first NHL season, Crosby finished sixth in league scoring with 102 points ( 39 goals, 63 assists ) और थी a runner-up लिये the calder मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी ( जीती by सिकंदर Ovechkin ).
By his second season, he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the Art Ross Trophy, becoming the youngest खिलाड़ी और the तभी किशोरावस्था to जीत a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक in कोई प्रमुख उत्तर American sports league.
That same season, Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey लेखक संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the एनएचएल Players Association 's choice for most outstanding player, becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year.
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals, where they were defeated by the Detroit Red Wings in six games.
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest कप्तान in एनएचएल इतिहास to win the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket रिचर्ड ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; साथ 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, Crosby received the Mark Messier Leadership Award.
In 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a परिणाम of hits to the head in back-to-back games.
The injury left him sidelined for ten और a हाफ months.
However, after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season, Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in दिसम्बर 2011, और he किया नहीं वापसी until mid-March 2012.
internationally, crosby रै represented कनाडा in numerous tournaments for the country 's junior and men 's teams.
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World Cup, he represented कनाडा in back-to-back iihf संसार U20 Championships, winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship, he led the tournament in स्कोरिंग, जबकि भी कमाई Top Forward and All-Star Team honours.
Four years later, Crosby थी नामित to टोली कनाडा for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.
Playing the United States in the gold medal game, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
A United States cent, also ज्ञात as a पैनी.
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my दो सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( us ) idiomatic expression, taken from the original English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is used to preface the tentative stating of one’s opinion.
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents, a very small amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a possibly statement, showing politeness and humility.
However, it is also sometimes प्रयुक्त साथ irony when expressing a strongly felt opinion.
The phrase is also used out of आदत to preface uncontentious opinions.
लिये example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces वफ़ादार to the सरकारी of the गणतंत्र of चीन led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ).
The war began in April 1927, amidst the Northern Expedition, and essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the Republic of China ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in मेनलैंड चीन, दोनो claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The war represented an ideological split ( Left vs. Right ) between the Communist CPC, and the kmt 's ब्रांड of राष्ट्रवाद.
The civil war जारी intermittently जबतक लेट 1937, जब the दो parties formed a Second United Front to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale सिविल युद्ध resumed in 1946, a year after the end of hostilities with Japan.
After four more years, 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ), and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.
The Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on June 1948 that the kmt था विफल, नहीं क्युकी of बाह्य दुश्मनों but because of rot from within.
Strong initial support इससे the U.S. diminished, and then, stopped.
( Partly because of KMT corruption और anti-democratic शासन, और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित U.S. foreign policy towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords.
This ensured pla लोकप्रिय support.
After the surrender of Japan at the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध ii, सोवियत forces turned over their captured Japanese weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this day, no armistice or सलाम treaty has ever been signed, and it is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by सैन्य खतरे और political and economic pressure, particularly over Taiwan 's political status, with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a सैन्य आक्रमण if the आरओसी officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना इसके नाम to और gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
The ROC mutually दावा मेनलैंड चीन, and they both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition.
Today, the war as such occurs on the political and आर्थिक fronts in the रूप of cross-strait relations ; however, the two separate de facto states have close economic ties.
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the meeting of the legislative branch of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी, from January 3, 2011 until January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, and ended on January 3, 2013, 17 दिनों पहले the समाप्त of the अध्यक्षीय पद to जिससे Barack Obama was elected in 2008.
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 समाप्त those शर्तें in this Congress.
This Congress included the last House of Representatives elected from congressional districts that were apportioned आधारित on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 midterm elections, the Republican Party जीती the बहुमत in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
While the Democrats रखा उनके Senate majority, it was reduced from the previous Congress.
This was the first Congress in which the House and Senate were controlled by different parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ), और the पहला कॉंग्रेस to शुरू कि रास्ता चूंकि the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In this Congress, the House of Representatives had the largest क्रमांक of रिपब्लिकन सदस्यों, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served, as well as the most politically polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण, with record low approval ratings.
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in terms of net worth, which is the sum of all assets, सहित घर इक्विटी, ऋण all liabilities.
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009, unadjusted for inflation or population change.
For example, a household in कब्ज़ा of an $ 800,000 हाउस, $ 5,000 in परस्पर निधि, $ 30,000 in cars, $ 20,000 worth of stock in their own company, and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000 बंधक, $ 40,000 in car लोन, और $ 10,000 in credit card debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household 's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
जाल लायक can vary साथ fluctuations in value of the underlying assets.
The wealth —more specifically, the मध्य net worth—of households in the United States is varied with relation to race, education, geographic location and gender.
as एक होता expect, households साथ वृहद आय विशेषता the उच्चतम जाल worths, हालांकि ऊँची आय can नहीं be लिया as an सदा सटीक indicator of जाल worth.
Overall the क्रमांक of wealthier households is on the rise, with baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly distributed, with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the माल in the United States, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human capital such as skills, the United Nations estimated the कुल माल of the संयुक्त States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
इस article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief ; for those procedures, which have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy and similar.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively नष्ट समस्यापूर्ण तंत्रिका जड़ें in the स्पाइनल cord, सबसे प्रायः to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular conditions such as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) लिये spastic दिमागी palsy रै महरूम the प्रमुख उपयोग of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
The sensory nerve roots, where spasticity is located, are first separated from the motor ones, and the तंत्रिका मछली to be काटें हैं तब identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity are then selectively lesioned साथ छोटा विद्युत pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged nerves कि don’t प्राप्त गामा अमीनो butyric acid, which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy.
ये over-firing, non-gaba-absorbing nerves generate असामान्य विद्युत activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated with the electrical pulses once identified, while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and that this is done without affecting nervous system sensitivity or function in other areas, because the only nerves destroyed are the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness.
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the उपचार of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease.
This is a कार्यविधि पुकारा a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more months of pain relief before the nerve regenerates and another round of the कार्यविधि needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, और इसके उपयोग of the `` rhizotomy '' नाम should not be confused with the SDR procedure.
migrant मजदूर in California, 1935
The term migrant कार्यकर्ता रै अलग official meanings and connotations in different parts of the world.
The United Nations ' definition is broad, including any लोगों working बाहर of their home country.
The पद can भी be used to describe someone who migrates within a country, possibly their own, in order to pursue work such as seasonal work.
फोटोग्राफ of Lil Wayne with teardrop tattoos below his eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a symbolic टैटू कि is लगाई underneath the eye.
It has no fixed meaning but almost all meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south u.S. Highway.
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson County, Minnesota, at the Canadian border, जहाँ it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा राजमार्ग 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas, Texas, where it is ज्ञात as उत्तर Central Expressway.
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border रूट, इससे Canada to the Gulf of Mexico at Galveston, Texas.
However, the entire segment south of Dallas, Texas has been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45, a cutoff section of town-to-town सतह सड़क having become राज्य राजमार्ग 75.
Lower Ninth Ward is a पड़ोस of the नगर of नई Orleans.
As the नाम implies, it is part of the Ninth Ward of New Orleans.
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the Industrial Canal ; however, the City Planning आयोग divides इस क्षेत्रफल into the निम्नतर Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
the पद `` निम्नतर '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the Mississippi River, `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology.
लकिन the 9th वार्ड, जैसे all Wards in New Orleans, is a voting district.
The 9th Ward was added as a voting district in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, and 7 which make up the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 जिले 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher मतदान ज़िला संख्याएँ in the 9th वार्ड ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the Industrial Canal.
the क्षेत्रफल आए to national attention for its devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Hubble views of Copernicus crater ( inset ), जिससे is परिचय 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon, as seen इससे धरती दौरान a lunar eclipse, where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural satellite of the Earth, and the पांचवां largest उपग्रह in the Solar System.
It is the largest natural उपग्रह of a ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली relative to the size of its primary, having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The Moon is the second densest satellite after io, a उपग्रह of बृहस्पति.
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth, always showing the same face with its near side marked by dark volcanic maria that भरण between the उज्जवल प्राचीन crustal हाइलैंड्स और the prominent प्रभाव craters.
It is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun, although its surface is actually very अंधेरा, साथ a reflectance समान to कि of कोयले.
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have, since ancient times, made the Moon an important cultural influence on language, पंचांग, आर्ट और mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and the minute lengthening of the दिन.
The Moon 's current orbital distance, about thirty times the diameter of the Earth, causes it to appear almost the same size in the sky as the Sun, allowing it to कवर the सूर्य nearly precisely in कुल solar eclipses.
This matching of apparent विज़ुअल आकार is a संयोग.
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm प्रति साल, लकिन इस रेट is नहीं constant.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 billion years ago, not long after the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past, the current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed from the मलबा बाएँ over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
The Moon is the only celestial body other than धरती on जिससे इंसानो have set foot.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo कार्यक्रम हासिल the तभी मानवयुक्त मिशन to तिथि, शुरूआत साथ the first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968, and six manned lunar landings between 1969 and 1972, with the first being Apollo 11.
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks, which have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins, the formation of its आतंरिक ढांचा, और इसके subsequent इतिहास.
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the Moon has been visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover.
Since 2004, Japan, China, India, the United States, and the European Space Agency have each sent चंद्र orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of चंद्र जल ice in permanently shadowed craters at the poles and bound into the lunar regolith.
Future manned missions to the Moon have been planned, सहित सरकारी as खूब as privately funded efforts.
The Moon remains, under the Outer Space Treaty, free to सब राष्ट्र to explore लिये शांतिपूर्ण उद्देश्य.
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; फ़रवरी 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he was the 33rd Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ), और a रेडियो, film and television actor.
Born in Tampico, Illinois, and raised in Dixon, Reagan थी शिक्षित at Eureka College, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology.
After graduating, Reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a radio broadcaster and then, in 1937, to Los Angeles where he began a करियर as an कर्ता, पहला in films और बाद टेलीविज़न.
Some of his most notable films include Knute Rockne, All American ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), और bedtime लिये bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a प्रवक्ता लिये सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in राजनीती occurred during his work for GE.
Originally a member of the Democratic Party, his positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s, और he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964, he was persuaded to seek the कैलिफ़ोर्निया governorship, जीतना दो सालो बाद and again in 1970.
He was defeated in his run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 और in 1976, लकिन जीती दोनो the नामांकन and general election in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As president, Reagan implemented sweeping new political and आर्थिक पहलों.
His supply-side आर्थिक नीतियों, उतावले `` reaganomics ``, advocated reducing कर दरों to spur आर्थिक growth, controlling the money supply to reduce inflation, deregulation of the economy, and reducing government spending.
In his first term he बच an हत्या attempt, took a hard line against labor unions, announced a new War on Drugs, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984, proclaiming that it was `` Morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily चिह्नित by विदेशी matters, ऐसे as the समाप्ति of the Cold War, the 1986 bombing of Libya, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing the रणनीति of détente by ordering a विशाल सैन्य buildup in an arms race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet General Secretary मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव, culminating in the INF Treaty and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan बाएँ office in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed that he had been diagnosed with अल्जाइमर 's बीमारी पहले in the साल ; he died ten years later at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he ranks highly in public opinion polls of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों और is credited लिये generating an ideological renaissance on the American political right.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; भी tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
the tanakh is also known as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` शिक्षण '', भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` कि जिससे is read '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी, पुकारा the मौखिक Torah.
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc class sport मोटरसाइकिल.
It was introduced in 1995, and रै महरूम constantly अद्यतनीकृत throughout the सालो in जवाब to new products from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s और still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and भूखंड on राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and former presidents, as well as the Presidents-elect, are known.
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. Garfield ( the 20th अध्यक्ष ), विलियम mckinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
दो राष्ट्रपतियों यहूद घायल in attempted assassinations : पूर्व अध्यक्ष Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th President ), and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the historian J.W. Clarke has suggested that most American assassinations were politically motivated actions, carried out by rational men, नहीं सब such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons.
Some हमलावर था questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been elected from the same political party as the अध्यक्ष, the हत्या of the अध्यक्ष is असंभावित to result in major policy changes.
This may बताइये क्यों राजनैतिक समूह typically do not make such attacks.
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about a boy who buys and trains दो redbone coonhound शिकार कुत्तो.
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa, cay : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '', और it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of ओक्लाहोमा Territory and Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, दूरसंचार, और जैवप्रौद्योगिकी.
It has one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रों.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern forests, most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains और the u.s. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native American ancestry, more than 25 देशी अमरीकी languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American सांस्कृतिक regions और historically served as a route for cattle drives, a destination for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Redwall, by Brian Jacques, is a series of children 's काल्पनिक novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the किताब और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels ( redwall, Mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The books are primarily aimed at older children, लकिन have प्रशंसक of सब ages.
There have महरूम twenty-two novels and two picture books published.
The twenty-second, and final, अनोखा, the दुष्ट क्रू, was posthumously released on May 3, 2011.
Natural गैस is प्रायः measured by volume in the United States and is stated in cubic feet.
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to fill a volume of one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is प्रयुक्त to denote 100 घन फीट, और `` mcf '' is प्रयुक्त to denote 1,000 घन feet.
to provide वृहद सटीकता in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of heat जरूरी to उठाएँ एक पाउंड of जल ( approximately a pint ), one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density.
One British therm ( प्रतीक thm ) is a non- si ईकाई of heat energy equal to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is approximately the energy equivalent of burning 100 घन फीट ( प्रायः referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content, a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to बदलें the आवाज़ of गैस प्रयुक्त to इसके ऊष्मा समतुल्य, and thus calculate the actual energy use.
The therm factor is प्रायः in the units therms/CCF.
it होगा vary साथ the mix of hydrocarbons in the natural gas.
Natural gas with a higher than average विशेषज्ञता of इथेन, प्रोपेन or butane will have a higher therm factor.
Impurities, such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen, lower the therm फ़ैक्टर.
The volume of the गैस is गणना as if measured at standard temperature and pressure ( STP ).
The heat content of natural gas is solely dependent on the composition of the gas, and is independent of तापमान और दबाव.
One therm is equal to परिचय 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by about of प्राकृतिक गैस.
The therm sometimes has been confused with the thermie ( see below ).
The names of both units आइये इससे the Greek word for heat.
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat energy, part of the meter-tonne-second प्रणाली sometimes used by European engineers.
The thermie is equal to the राशि of उर्जा जरूरी to raise the temperature of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C.
The thermie is समतुल्य to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave राज्य formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they होता intervene ; none किया और none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना.
Lincoln called for each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
lincoln जारी the emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
the defending confederate फौज विफल, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a former U.S. track and field athlete, motivational speaker, socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और बिजनेसमैन.
He won the सुनहरा पदक लिये decathlon in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the सम्बन्धित मान्यता, he married Kris Kardashian, and his professional career evolved into being a television celebrity.
By 1981, he had starred in several made-for-tv फिल्मों और थी erik Estrada 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs.
He has six children : Burt, Casey, Brandon, Brody, केंडल and Kylie.
Since his 1991 विवाह to Kris Jenner, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, Kim, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
चूंकि 2007, he has appeared with his blended family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in humans, and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, and can benefit their hosts by producing विटामिन k2, और by preventing the स्थापना of रोगजनक जीवाणु within the intestine.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute परिचय 0.1 % of आंत फ्लोरा, और fecal–oral हस्तांतरण is the major route through which pathogenic strains of the bacterium cause disease.
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time, which makes them ideal indicator organisms to test पर्यावरणीय नमूने लिये fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli जिससे can जीवित लिये विस्तारित periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can also be grown easily और inexpensively in a प्रयोगशाला setting, and has been intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. coli is the सबसे widely पढ़ाई prokaryotic मॉडल सजीव, और an महत्वपूर्ण species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology, where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA.
Area कोड 217 is the उत्तर अमरीकी telephone area code for much of western and central Illinois.
The 217 क्षेत्रफल शामिल इलिनोइस ' पूंजी, Springfield, plus Champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the original area कोड, जिससे were created in 1947.
The only significant बदलें in 217 's सीमाएँ थी in 1957, जब इसके northern portion was combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309.
Image of the largest अंटार्कटिक ओज़ोन छेद कभी अंकित ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the Southern pole
परतों of the atmosphere ( not to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक in the कुल आवाज़ of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, there are also springtime ध्रुवीय tropospheric ओज़ोन depletion कार्यक्रम.
The details of ध्रुवीय ओज़ोन छेद गठन differ इससे कि of mid-latitude thinning, but the most important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens.
The main source of these हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs, freons, halons ).
These compounds are transported into the stratosphere after being emitted at the surface.
Both types of ओज़ोन depletion यहूद observed to increase as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs and other contributory substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ods ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern leading to adoption of the Montreal Protocol that bans the उत्पादन of cfcs, halons, और अन्य ozone-depleting रसायन ऐसे as कार्बन tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a variety of biological consequences such as increases in skin cancer, cataracts, damage to plants, और कटौती of प्लवक populations in the समंदर 's photic मण्डल may परिणाम इससे the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is a ब्रैड introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the संविधान होता achieve as it pertains to सब of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian shot putter Plihan at the 1957 East जर्मनी अंदर एथलेटिक्स Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track and field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing गति ) a भारी गोलाकार ऑब्जेक्ट —the shot—as दूर as possible.
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the modern Olympics चूंकि उनके पुनरुद्धार in 1896, महिलाओं 's प्रतियोगिता began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member states, with their territories ( सहित निर्भर territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are United Nations ( UN ) member states, and प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a सदस्य of the संयुक्त Nations General Assembly.
The criteria for admission of new members are set out in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Charter, Chapter II, Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at तनिक नौ of the परिषद 's fifteen members, with none of the five permanent members voting against.
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently स्वीकृत in the सामान्य सभा by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign राज्य can become un सदस्यों, और फिलहाल सब un सदस्यों हैं sovereign states ( although a few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo Convention criteria are not members because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members.
In addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ), intergovernmental organizations, and other international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing them to participate and बोलो, लकिन नहीं vote, in सामान्य सभा meetings.
The Eiffel Tower (, ) is an iron जाली मीनार located on the Champ de Mars in Paris, named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel, whose company designed and built the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become both a global cultural icon of France and one of the most recognizable structures in the world.
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited paid monument in the world ; 7.1 लाख लोगों ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the European Union and the highest in Europe as long as the platform of the ostankino मीनार, at, remains बंद as a परिणाम of the fire of August 2000.
The मीनार प्राप्त its 250 millionth visitor in 2010.
The tower stands tall, about the वही ऊँचाई as an 81-storey building.
During its construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made ढांचा in the संसार, a शीर्षक it आयोजित लिये 41 सालो, जबतक the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930.
Because of the जोड, in 1957, of the एंटीना atop the Eiffel Tower, it is now taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including broadcast antennas, it is the second-tallest ढांचा in France, after the Millau Viaduct.
The tower has three levels लिये विज़िटर.
टिकटें can be खरीदा to ascend, by stairs or lift ( elevator ), to the first and second levels.
The walk from ground स्तर to the पहला स्तर is over 300 steps, as is the walk from the first to the second level.
The third and highest level is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public.
The first and second स्तर have restaurants.
The tower has become the most prominent symbol of both Paris and फ़्रांस, प्रायः in the establishing शॉट of films set in the city.
Kenneth Wayne `` केन '' जेनिंग्स iii ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an American game show contestant and author.
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest जीतना streak on the u.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time leading money winner on अमरीकी खेल shows.
In 2004, Jennings जीती 74 jeopardy !
games पहले he थी पराजित by चैलेंजर Nancy Zerg on his 75th appearance.
उसके कुल आय on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over उसके 74 विन्स, a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th appearance, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
परम टूर्नामेंट of Champions, as well as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge.
दौरान उसके पहला चलाएं of Jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings अर्जित the रिकार्ड for the highest American game show winnings.
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter, who पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on may 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings.
जेनिंग्स regained the रिकार्ड बाद appearing on several other game shows, culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on October 10, 2008 ), हालांकि rutter retains the jeopardy !
रिकार्ड.
After his success on Jeopardy !, Jennings wrote about his experience and explored American trivia history and culture in his book Brainiac : Adventures in the Curious, Competitive, बाध्यता संसार of ट्रिविया Buffs, published in 2006.
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in फ्रेंच ) is a पेशेवर sports league located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of प्रतियोगिता in कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल, a form of gridiron football closely related to American football.
Its eight वर्तमान टीमों, जिससे हैं स्तिथ in आठ पृथक शहरों, हैं divided into two divisions of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division.
The league 's 19-week regular season runs इससे late June to early November ; each team plays 18 games with one bye week.
following the नियमित ऋतु, the तीन टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन रिकॉर्ड in उनके प्रभाग ( मगर if the चौथी प्लेस टोली in एक प्रभाग रै a बेहतर रिकार्ड than the तीसरा प्लेस टोली in the other division, when the team with the better record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional playoffs, which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
The CFL was officially founded on January 19, 1958, making it the second oldest gridiron football league in North America still in operation, हालांकि सब इसके टीमों long predate the modern formation of the league.
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football, the most popular football league in Canada, and the second-most popular major sports लीग in कनाडा, बाद the नेशनल हॉकी League.
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most popular sport, the CFL has increased the लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई football in Quebec and Western Canada.
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e. youth, high स्कूल, cjfl, qjfl, cis और senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s will be a significant decade for the CFL in terms of growth, as teams have renovated, expanded स्टेडियम, or plan to build entirely new stadiums.
The Montreal Alouettes accomplished this first, adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson मेमोरियल Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season.
The एडमॉन्टन एस्किमोस और कैला स्तेमपेड्रस also renovated their respective stadiums and facilities for the 2010 season.
In 2011, the BC Lions played under a new, retractable roof in BC Place after spending एक और a हाफ सीज़न at साम्राज्य फ़ील्ड.
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new stadium at the University of मनिटोबा, अनुसूचित to खोलें in समय for the 2013 season.
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at नई or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years.
There are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in either the अधिक आबादी halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports historian Douglas Brei, the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports league in North America, major or minor league, in जिससे प्रत्येक मौजूदा मताधिकार रै जीती at तनिक एक लीग शीर्षक while in their current location.
Each antibody binds to a विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ; an बातचीत similar to a lock and key.
An antibody ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( ig ), is a large Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses.
The antibody recognizes a unique part of the foreign target, पुकारा an प्रतिजन.
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure analogous to a lock ) that is specific for one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on an antigen, allowing these two structures to bind together with precision.
Using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an संक्रमित कोशिका लिये आक्रमण by अन्य भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली, or can neutralize its target directly ( for example, by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ).
The production of antibodies is the main फलन of the humoral immune system.
Antibodies are secreted by a type of white blood cell called a प्लाज्मा कोशिका.
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms, a soluble form कि is स्रावित इससे the कोशिका, और a झिल्ली -bound रूप that is attached to the surface of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ).
The BCR is only found on the सतह of b कोशिकाएं और facilitates the सक्रियण of ये कोशिकाएं और उनके subsequent differentiation into either antibody factories called plasma cells, or memory B cells that will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, interaction of the B कोशिका साथ a t हेल्पर कोशिका is जरुरी to उपज पूरा सक्रियण of the B cell and, therefore, antibody generation following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies हैं released into the blood and tissue fluids, as well as many secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms.
antibodies हैं glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of basic structural units—each साथ दो विशाल भारी जंजीरों और दो छोटी light chains.
There are several different types of antibody भारी जंजीरों, और अनेक अलग kinds of antibodies, which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform different roles, and help direct the appropriate immune response for each अलग प्रकार of foreign object they encounter.
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar, a small region at the tip of the protein is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय, allowing लाखो of antibodies with slightly different tip structures, or antigen binding sites, to exist.
This प्रदेश is ज्ञात as the hypervariable region.
Each of ये विसंगतियाँ can bind to a different antigen.
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an बराबर चौड़ी किस्में of antigens.
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a नियत of जीन खण्ड कि encode अलग प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट ( or paratopes ), followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene, which create further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the भारी कड़ी to another, बनाना a अलग isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region.
इस allows a सिंगल antibody to be used by several different parts of the immune system.
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to चिह्न उसके पत्राचार
The Zodiac Killer was a serial killer who संचालित in उत्तरी California in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
The killer 's identity remains unknown.
The zodiac murdered पीड़ितों in benicia, Vallejo, Lake Berryessa, and San Francisco between December 1968 and October 1969.
चार मेन और तीन महिलाओं between the ages of 16 and 29 were targeted.
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting अक्षर भेजा to the local Bay Area press.
These letters included four cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms sent, only one रै महरूम definitively solved.
Suspects have महरूम नामित by विधि प्रवर्तन and amateur investigators, but no conclusive evidence has surfaced.
In April 2004, the San Francisco Police Department marked the case `` inactive '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
the मामला भी remains खोलें in the city of Vallejo, as well as in Napa County and Solano County.
The California Department of Justice has maintained an खोलें मामला संचिका on the zodiac murders since 1969.
Jennings is a small city in and the parish seat of Jefferson डेविस मोहल्ला, louisiana, United States, near Lake Charles.
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 census, a छोटी मनाही इससे the 2000 tabulation.
The city is 68 percent श्वेत.
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings micropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, जिससे includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish.
It is also part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings संयुक्त Statistical Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of पदार्थ on an परमाणु and molecular scale.
The earliest, फैली वर्णन of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at तनिक एक आयाम sized इससे 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical प्रभाव हैं महत्वपूर्ण at इस quantum-realm स्केल, और so the परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as खूब as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including industrial and military ), governments have invested अरबों of डॉलर in nanotechnology research.
Through its National Nanotechnology Initiative, the यूएसए रै invested 3.7 billion dollars.
The European Union has invested 1.2 billion and Japan 750 लाख dollars.
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very broad, including फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as सतह विज्ञान, सशुल्क रसायन, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated research and applications are equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly, from विकासशील नई सामग्री साथ आयाम on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale.
Scientists फिलहाल बहस the future implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices साथ a विशाल दायरा of applications, such as in medicine, electronics, biomaterials and energy production.
On the अन्य हाथ, nanotechnology उठाता अनेक of the वही मुद्दे as कोई नई technology, including concerns about the toxicity and environmental impact of nanomaterials, and their potential effects on global economics, as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a debate among advocacy groups and सरकारें on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
Map of the पूर्वी Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the former communist states of Central and Eastern Europe, generally the सोवियत संघ और the देशों of the वॉरसॉ Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of states aligned with the Soviet Union, although these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe.
The New Jersey gubernatorial चुनाव of 2009 took प्लेस on November 3, 2009.
लोकतांत्रिक राज्यपाल jon corzine थी कार्यशील लिये a दूसरी term and was being challenged by Republican Chris Christie, Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
Christie won the election, with about 48.5 percent of the vote, to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 प्रतिशत लिये daggett.
Christie won the largest margin for a first पद रिपब्लिकन चूंकि 1969.
क्रिस्टी assumed दफ्तर on January 19, 2010.
This was the first election to fill the newly निर्मित दफ्तर of Lieutenant Governor.
The candidates for governor and lieutenant governor यहूद joined साथ as a single choice, so that voters did not have the opportunity to split the ticket.
Kim Guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became New Jersey 's first lieutenant governor following उसके उद्घाटन.
Health care in the United States is provided by अनेक पृथक organizations.
Health care facilities are largely owned and operated by निजी सेक्टर व्यवसायों.
Health insurance लिये पब्लिक sector employees is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, the children 's स्वास्थ्य बीमे कार्यक्रम, और the दिग्गजों स्वास्थ्य Administration.
Most of the population under 65 is insured by their or a family member 's employer, some buy स्वास्थ्य बीमे on उनके own, and the remainder are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National Institutes of Health in 2013, the संयुक्त राज्य थी at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु, heart and lung disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, such issues place the U.S. at the bottom of the सूची लिये जीवन expectancy.
On average, a U.S. male can be expected to live almost four कम सालो than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ), the संयुक्त राज्य खर्च अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह per capita ( $ 7,146 ), and more on health care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States last in the quality of health care among समान देशों, और notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 लाख निवासियों, 16.3 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, यहूद uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The United States is among the few industrialized राष्ट्र in the संसार कि करता नहीं गारंटी access to health care for its population. ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of Mexico, Turkey, and the United States, all OECD countries had achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) कवरेज of उनके populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक मौतों प्रत्येक साल in the संयुक्त States.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers लिये bankruptcies claimed high medical expenses.
A 2013 study found that about 25 % of all senior citizens declare bankruptcy due to medical expenses, and 43 % हैं मजबूर to बंधक or sell their primary residence.
On कूच 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major changes in health insurance.
In physiology, body जल is the water content of the human body.
A significant भिन्न of the human body is water.
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the कुल राशि of जल in a man of औसत weight ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres, averaging 57 percent of his total body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as high as 75 प्रतिशत of the देह वज़न, लकिन it progressively decreases इससे जनम to old age, most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life.
Also, obesity decreases the percentage of water in the देह, sometimes to as कम as 45 percent ''.
These figures are सांख्यिकीय averages, so हैं illustrative, और जैसे सब biostatistics, will vary with things like type of population, age and number of people sampled, and methodology.
So there is not, and can not be, a figure that is exactly the same for all people, for this or कोई अन्य physiological measure.
For example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) anatomy & physiology लिये नर्स gives a figure of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, which approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where body water is affected, the compartment or compartments कि have बदला can दे clues to the प्रकृति of the प्रॉब्लम.
Body water is regulated by hormones, including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ), aldosterone and अलिंदी natriuretic पेप्टाइड.
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human physiology, देह जल is टूटा bas into the following compartments:
intracellular द्रव ( 2/3 of body water ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 लीटर of द्रव, परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular, which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
जैक्सन 's texts states 70 % of body fluid is intracellular.
extracellular द्रव ( 1/3 of body water ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, for a 40 litre body, about 15 लीटर is extracellular, जिससे amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per Guyton 's उदाहरण, of the 15 लीटर of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the same as per netter 's एटलस.
Interstitial fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
transcellular द्रव ( a.k.a. `` third space, '' normally ignored in calculations )
Contained inside organs, such as the gastrointestinal, प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु, उदरावरणीय, और ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to reflect a person 's overall emotional मूल्यांकन of उसके or her own worth.
It is a judgement of oneself as well as an रवैया toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph, despair, pride and shame.
Smith and mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ; self-esteem, is the positive or negative evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it. ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative आयाम of the self that includes feelings of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is भी closely associated with self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition that a व्यक्ति रै जिससे represents their judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, Morris Rosenberg and social-learning पैरोकार पारिभाषित self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the अनुभव of being competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
according to branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a feeling of personal capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of their क्षमता to फेस जीवन 's चुनौतियां, to समझे और solve समस्याएं, और their right to achieve happiness, and be given respect.
As a social psychological construct, self-esteem is attractive because researchers have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of प्रासंगिक outcomes, ऐसे as अकादमिक उपलब्धि ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem has also been treated as an important outcome due to its close संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being ( दलदल 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example, `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i मानना i am a ख़राब person, and feel bad about myself in general '' ).
Psychologists usually लिहाज़ self-esteem as an enduring व्यक्तित्व characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), though normal, short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem शामिल : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge, is the मौलिक organisational ईकाई of freemasonry.
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand Lodge, but is subject to its direction only in enforcing the प्रकाशित Constitution of the jurisdiction.
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the United Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique privilege to operate as time immemorial i.e. बगैर ऐसे वारंट ; तभी एक अन्य आवास operates बगैर a वारंट - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London, although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A Freemason is generally हकदार to विज़िट कोई आवास, in कोई क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e. under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own.
In some jurisdictions इस privilege is restricted to Master Masons ( that is, Freemasons who have attained the Order 's third degree ).
He is first usually required to check, and certify, the regularity of the relationship of the आवास - और be समर्थ to satisfy कि आवास of उसके नियमितता of सदस्यता.
Freemasons gather together as a आवास to कार्य the तीन मौलिक डिग्री of डाला Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in St Helens, United Kingdom and a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the japan-based NSG Group.
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it थी an स्वतंत्र कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध on the London Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of one अभिव्यक्ति as भाग of another एक, विशेषकर when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source, and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
A quotation can भी refer to the दोहराया उपयोग of इकाई of कोई अन्य रूप of expression, especially parts of artistic works : elements of a painting, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a आम साल starting on सोमवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.
ब्लैक pepper ( पाइपर nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red जब fully वयस्क, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and श्वेत pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in तीव्र regions.
फिलहाल वियतनाम is the संसार 's largest निर्माता और exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
It is एक of the सबसे आम मसाले added to European cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, नहीं to be उलझन with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, प्रायः युग्म with salt.
Fire hydrant in charlottesville, Virginia, USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ), is an active fire protection measure, and a source of जल provided in सबसे शहरी, suburban और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका जल सेवा to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since firefighters should be able to more rapidly बुझा a आग on the insured प्रॉपर्टी.
The concept of fire plugs तिथियाँ to at तनिक the 17th century.
This was a time when अग्निशमन responding to a कॉल होता खुदाई bas to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires.
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well, and be transported from the well to the आग by बाल्टी brigades or, बाद, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes यहूद तब plugged साथ stoppers, सामान्यतः redwood, which over time came to be known as fire plugs.
The location of the plug would often be recorded or marked so that it could be reused in future fires.
This is the source of the colloquial term fire plug still used लिये आग hydrants today.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city संस्थापित जल मेन्स साथ छेद drilled at intervals, equipped साथ risers, allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level.
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff Sr., मुख्य इंजीनियर of the फिलाडेल्फिया जल works around the year 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet आउटलेट और थी of `` गीला barrel '' design with the valve in the top.
It is said that Graff held the first patent लिये a आग hydrant, लकिन इस can नहीं be सत्यापित क्युकी the patent office in Washington D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the head of राज्य and head of government under South Africa 's Constitution.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of state was पुकारा the राज्य अध्यक्ष.
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, and is usually the leader of the largest party, which has been the African नेशनल कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the पहला non-racial चुनावों were held on 27 April 1994.
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of prime minister, but the दो भूमिकाएँ यहूद मिलाया in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office.
the 1993 और बाद constitutions limits the president 's time in office to two five-year terms.
The first President to be elected under the नई संविधान थी Nelson Mandela, and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), there was a Government of National Unity, in which an MP from the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President.
Along with Thabo mbeki, the पिछला राज्य अध्यक्ष, f.w. de klerk भी परोसा as डिप्टी अध्यक्ष, in his capacity as the leader of the National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
But De Klerk later resigned और गई into opposition with his party.
A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ), although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.
Special education or special needs शिक्षा is the शिक्षा of students with special needs in a way that addresses the students ' individual differences and needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored व्यवस्था of शिक्षण प्रक्रियाओं, adapted उपकरण and materials, accessible settings, and other interventions designed to help learners with special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include challenges with सीखना, communication challenges, emotional and behavioral disorders, physical disabilities, and developmental disorders.
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit इससे अतिरिक्त शैक्षणिक सेवाएं such as different approaches to teaching, use of technology, a specifically adapted teaching area, or resource room.
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different educational programs, but the term `` special education '' is generally used to specifically indicate निर्देश of विद्यार्थी whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, and gifted education is handled separately.
In most developed countries, educators are modifying teaching methods and environments so that the maximum number of विद्यार्थी हैं परोसा in सामान्य शिक्षा environments.
Special education in developed countries is often regarded less as a `` प्लेस '' और अधिक as `` a range of services, available in every school. ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve अकादमिक उपलब्धि लिये अनेक विद्यार्थी.
The opposite of special education is सामान्य शिक्षा.
General education is the standard curriculum presented with standard teaching विधि और बगैर additional supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as Schwartz György ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate, investor, and लोकसेवक.
He is the chairman of Soros Fund प्रबन्धन.
Soros supports progressive-liberal कल्याणकारी.
He is known as `` The Man Who Broke the Bank of England `` because of his in investment profits दौरान the 1992 ब्लैक बुधवार uk करेंसी crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave दूर over $ 8 billion to human rights, public health, and education causes.
He played a significant role in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of Europe 's largest higher शिक्षा endowments to सेंट्रल यूरोपीय विश्वविद्यालयों in बुडापेस्ट.
Soros is also the chairman of the Open समाज संस्थान.
An actor portraying सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an early model telephone.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by अनेक individuals, the इतिहास of जिससे involves a संग्रहण of दावा and counterclaims.
The development of the modern electrical telephone involved an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of अनेक individuals और numerous कंपनियाँ.
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, इससे धारणा of the विचार of an इलेक्ट्रिक voice-transmission यंत्र, to विफल attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current, to successful experiments with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson, and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century.
A Master of Fine कला ( mfa, m.f.a. ) is a ग्रैजुएट उपाधि typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ), although the term of study will vary by country or by university.
The MFA is a रचनात्मक उपाधि प्रायः awarded as a terminal degree in visual arts, creative writing, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing arts.
coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature with the program often culminating in a major work or performance.
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally required a bachelor 's उपाधि prior to प्रवेश, but many do not require that the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA field of study.
The most important admissions requirement has often been a sample portfolio or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA, while an academic program, centers around अभ्यास in the particular फ़ील्ड, whereas programs leading to the MA usually center on the scholarly, academic, or critical study of the field.
Additionally, in the United States, an MFA is recognized as a टर्मिनल उपाधि लिये practitioners of विज़ुअल आर्ट, डिज़ाइन, नृत्य, थिएटर, film/video, नई मीडिया, और Creative Writing - meaning that it is considered to be the highest degree in its field, and is used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines.
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts, notably in the case of music performance, जहाँ the mfa is नहीं देखी as a टर्मिनल degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between रचनात्मक उत्पादन और जारी अकादमिक शोध, कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have स्थापित practice-based ph.d programs in fields such as creative writing, visual arts, new media, design and theater.
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in design and new media, the influx of graduates इससे practice-based phd कार्यक्रम has not appreciably changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an ongoing contentious topic, and is the बारंबार विषय of अकादमिक panels, especially at the annual College Art Association conference.
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms that the PhD is not required as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in the विज़ुअल कला.
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945.
The two कार्यक्रम हैं the only use of nuclear weapons in war to date.
Following a firebombing अभियान कि नष्ट many Japanese cities, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan.
The war in Europe ended when Nazi जर्मनी हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र of surrender on 8 May, but the Pacific War continued.
Together with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China, the United States called for a आत्मसमर्पण of जापानी in the पॉट्सडैम घोषणा on 26 जुलाई 1945, threatening जापानी with `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
The Japanese government ignored this ultimatum, and the United States तैनात दो नाभिकीय हथियार developed by the Manhattan Project.
अमरीकी airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first two to four months of the bombings, the acute effects मारे 90,000–166,000 लोगों in हिरोशिमा और 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी, with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day.
The हिरोशिमा प्रीफ़ेक्चर स्वास्थ्य department estimated that, of the people who died on the day of the explosion, 60 % died from flash or flame burns, 30 % from falling debris and 10 % from other causes.
During the following months, large numbers died from the effect of burns, radiation sickness, and अन्य चोटों, compounded by illness.
In a US estimate of the total तात्कालिक और छोटी पद कारण of मौत, 15–20 % died from radiation sickness, 20–30 % from burns, and 50–60 % from other injuries, compounded by illness.
In both cities, most of the dead were नागरिकों, हालांकि हिरोशिमा had a sizeable garrison.
On 15 August, six days after the bombing of Nagasaki, Japan announced its surrender to the Allies, हस्ताक्षर the यंत्र of आत्मसमर्पण on 2 September, officially ending World War II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting तीन non-nuclear सिद्धान्त, forbidding the nation from nuclear armament.
The role of the bombings in जापानी 's आत्मसमर्पण और उनके ethical justification are still debated.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi, थी the preeminent नेता of भारतीय राष्ट्रवाद in British-ruled India.
employing non-violent सिविल disobedience, गांधी led India to independence and inspired movements for non-violence, civil rights and freedom across the world.
The son of a senior government आधिकारिक, गांधी थी born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in coastal Gujarat, and trained in law in London.
Gandhi became famous by लड़ लिये the सिविल अधिकारों of मुस्लिम और हिन्दू इंडियंस in दक्षिण Africa, using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed.
Returning to India in 1915, he set about organising peasants to विरोध excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e. basing politics on religion ) he reached out widely to all धार्मिक groups.
He became a leader of Muslims protesting the घटती औकात of the Caliphate.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, गांधी led देशभर अभियान लिये easing गरीबी, expanding महिलाओं 's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, increasing economic self-reliance, and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the नेशनल नमक कर साथ the dandi नमक March in 1930, and later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942, during World War II.
He was imprisoned for that and for numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to अभ्यास non-violence and truth in all situations, and advocated that others do the same.
He saw the villages as the core of the true India and promoted self-sufficiency ; he किया नहीं support the industrialization कार्यक्रम of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He जिया modestly in a self-sufficient आवासीय जातियाँ और wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl, woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha.
His chief political enemy in ब्रिटेन थी विंस्टन चर्चिल, who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian, and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification और राजनैतिक mobilization.
In his last year, unhappy at the partition of India, Gandhi worked to रोकें the carnage between मुसलमान, हिन्दुओं और सिखों कि raged in the border area between India and Pakistan.
he थी assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram Godse who thought Gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims.
30 January is observed as शहीदो ' दिन in India.
The honorific Mahatma ( `` Great Soul '' ) was applied to उसे by 1914.
In India he was also called bapu ( `` Father '' ).
He is ज्ञात in इण्डिया as the पिता of the स्वदेश ; उसके जन्मदिवस, 2 अक्तूबर, is commemorated वहीँ as गांधी Jayanti, a national holiday, and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but one of व्यावहारिकतावाद, कि is, practicing his principles in the moment.
Asked to give a message to the people, he होता respond, `` my जीवन is my message. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born lucille fay lesueur, was an American actress in film, television and theatre.
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on Broadway, Crawford was signed to a motion picture contract by metro-goldwyn-mayer in 1925.
Initially frustrated by the आकार और quality of her parts, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, क्रॉफर्ड 's कीर्ति rivaled, और बाद outlasted, MGM colleagues Norma Shearer and Greta Garbo.
क्रॉफर्ड प्रायः निभाई मेहनती यंग women who find romance and financial success.
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were खूब प्राप्त by Depression -era audiences and were popular with women.
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest paid women in the United States, लकिन उसके films began खोने धन and by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison ''.
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen, Crawford staged a comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ), for which वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री.
In 1955, she became involved with the Pepsi-Cola Company through her विवाह to company Chairman Alfred Steele.
After उसके मौत in 1959, क्रॉफर्ड was elected to fill his vacancy on the board of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973.
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the 1960s, when her performances became fewer ; बाद the रिलीज of the British horror film Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, after जिससे unflattering छायाचित्र यहूद प्रकाशित, Crawford withdrew from public life and became increasingly reclusive until her death in 1977.
क्रॉफर्ड शादीशुदा four times.
Her first three marriages ended in divorce ; the last ended with the मौत of husband अल्फ्रेड स्टील.
She adopted five children, one of whom was reclaimed by उसके birth mother.
Crawford 's relationships with her two पुरानी children, क्रिस्टीना and Christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the दो और, बाद क्रॉफर्ड 's मौत, क्रिस्टीना लिखा a `` tell-all '' memoir, Mommie Dearest, in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford.
She was voted the tenth greatest female star in the history of American सिनेमा by the American Film Institute.
1910 बुइक tonneau without tonneau cover
1903 Ford Model A rear-door tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover used to protect unoccupied यात्री सीटे in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup truck.
Hard tonneau कवर खोलें by a hinging or folding mechanism while soft covers open by rolling up.
The tonneau cover is used to छिपाते कार्गो.
When the cover is pulled out, it keeps items out of the sun and provides extra सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं आउट of sight, as well as shielding the driver from view.
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and read text-based संदेश of up to 140 वर्ण, ज्ञात as `` tweets ''.
Twitter was created in March 2006 by Jack Dorsey और by जुलाई, the सोशल नेटवर्किंग साईट थी launched.
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity, with over 500 million registered users as of 2012, generating over 340 million tweets daily and हैंडलिंग over 1.6 अरब ढूंढें queries per day.
Since its launch, Twitter has become one of the ten most visited websites on the Internet, and has महरूम वर्णित as `` the sms of the Internet. ''
Unregistered users can read tweets, जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can post tweets through the website interface, SMS, or a range of apps for mobile devices.
Twitter Inc. is based in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, साथ अतिरिक्त सर्वर और offices in New York City, Boston, and San Antonio.
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film, co-produced and directed by टॉड phillips और लिखा by jon लुकास और Scott Moore.
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise.The film stars Bradley कूपर, ed helms, zach galifianakis, हीथर Graham, Justin Bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck, Stu Price and Alan Garner, who travel to Las Vegas for a bachelor party to celebrate उनके dost डग billings ' impending marriage.
However, Phil, Stu and Alan have no memory of the previous night 's events and must ढूँढें डग पहले the wedding can take place.
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared and था a विशाल विधेयक बाद होने sent to a strip club.
After Lucas and मूर बेची it to the स्टुडियो लिये $ 2 लाख, फिलिप्स और जेरेमी garelick rewrote the script to include a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser, and also including boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in नेवाडा लिये 15 दिनों, और during filming, the three main actors ( Cooper, Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The Hangover was released on June 5, 2009, becoming a critical और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009, साथ a विश्वव्यापी gross of over US $ 467 million.
Critics praised the film 's comedic approach लकिन criticized it लिये its vulgarity.
The film won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or कॉमेडी, and received multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world, as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy ever in the संयुक्त राज्य, surpassing a रिकार्ड previously आयोजित by बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop लिये लगभग 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
आउट of सब r-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S., behind only The Passion of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded.
A sequel, The Hangover Part II, was released in 2011, and a third and final film, The hangover भाग iii, is set for release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, प्रर्दशित chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of कोशिका प्रभाग जरुरी for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes.
The कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by meiosis are gametes or spores.
In many organisms, including all animals and land plants ( but not some other groups such as fungi ), gametes हैं पुकारा शुक्राणु और अंडा कोशिकाएं.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a number of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' कोशिका प्रभाग प्रक्रम of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a अलग जेनेटिक संयोजन in प्रत्येक gamete, compared साथ the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the दो पृथक pairs of each chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially चार ( genetically अद्वितीय ) अगुणित cells, compared with the two ( genetically identical ) diploid cells produced from mitosis.
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one इससे the सजीव 's mother and one from its father.
The कोशिका divides twice, potentially producing up to four haploid cells containing one copy of each chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases, ऐसे as the formation of oocytes in mammals, only one of the possible four haploid cells survives. )
In animals the haploid cell resulting from meiosis is a पुरूष or female gamete.
प्रत्येक of the resulting गुणसूत्रों in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण of maternal and paternal DNA, resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent.
This gives rise to genetic diversity in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act, but, as described below in Section 6, Origin and function of meiosis, the जेनेटिक विविधता may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination कि is primarily employed लिये इसके डीएनए मरम्मत function during meiosis.
It is also noteworthy कि दौरान meiosis, विशिष्ट जीनों are more highly transcribed, and these are called the meiome, the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing, synapse and recombination occur.
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ), however, there are also pervasive translational नियंत्रण ( e.g. चयनात्मक usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome और translational नियंत्रण determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the कोशिका 's गुणसूत्रों हैं duplicated by a गोलाकार of डीएनए replication, creating from the maternal and paternal versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies, sister chromatids, attached at the centromere region.
In the beginning of meiosis the मातृ and paternal homologs pair to each other.
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading to crossovers of DNA between the मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of each pair of homologs और arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs to opposite डंडे of the कोशिका.
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, प्रत्येक containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids.
After the recombined मातृ और पैतृक homologs have separated into the two daughter cells, a second round of cell division occurs.
There meiosis ends as the दो सिस्टर chromatids बनाना up each homolog are separated and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, for उदाहरण जब a शुक्राणु enters an egg cell, two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete इससे the पिता प्रत्येक योगदान एक हाफ of the set of chromosomes that make up the new offspring 's genome.
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis, a type of cell division used by eukaryotes जैसे पौधे और पशु to split one cell into two identical daughter cells.
In all plants and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively बगैर undergoing fertilization.
Boxing ( pugilism, prize fighting, the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat sport in which two लोगों engage in a प्रतियोगिता of शक्ति, गति, reflexes, endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands.
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is a common fixture in most of the major international games - it also रै इसके अपना संसार championships.
Boxing is पर्यवेक्षित by a रेफरी over a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee, is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम, resigns by फेंकना in a towel, or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be its acceptance by the ancient Greeks as an Olympic game as जल्दी as 688 bc.
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights, largely in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, to the forerunner of modern boxing in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States.
In 2004, ESPN ranked boxing as the most difficult खेल in the world.
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes form depending on the अन्य शब्द to which it relates.
It is an उदाहरण of inflection, और प्रायः involves making the value of some grammatical category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
For example, in Standard English, one may say I am or he is, but not `` i is '' or `` he am ''.
This is because the grammar of the language requires that the verb and इसके विषय सहमत in person.
The pronouns i और he हैं first and third person respectively, as are the verb forms am and is.
The verb form must be selected so that it has the same person as the विषय.
The agreement based on overt grammatical categories as above is formal agreement, in कंट्रास्ट to notional अनुबंध, जिससे is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase The United States is treated as singular for उद्देश्य of अनुबंध, भी हालांकि it is formally plural.
This is a सूची of places below mean sea level that are on land.
Places in tunnels, mines, basements, dug holes ( also with open sky ), under water, under ice, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc. हैं नहीं शामिल.
All figures are in meters नीचे समुद्र level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in Yakima, Washington ) is a best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
over 140 million copies of her books are in print throughout the world, and four have become made-for-TV-movies.
macomber थी the inaugural विजेता of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 and has been awarded both a Romance Writers of America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in Baltimore County, Maryland, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The जातियाँ झूठ to the west of Baltimore along the city 's border.
Catonsville is the home of the University of Maryland, Baltimore काउंटी ( umbc ), a पब्लिक research university with over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to Black 's Law शब्दकोष, is `` a person learned in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law. ''
Law is the system of नियम of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign सरकारी of a society to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of political and social authority, and deliver justice.
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve specific individualized problems, or to advance the interests of those जो retain ( i.e., hire ) वकील to perform legal services.
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, और so it can be treated यहाँ in तभी the सबसे general terms.
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales arm of Cutco Corporation, an olean, नई यॉर्क आधारित cutlery manufacturer.
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय विधि requiring covered नियोक्ता to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and family reasons include : personal or family illness, परिवार सैन्य छोड़, गर्भावस्था, अपनाना, or the foster care placement of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the मजदूरी और Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.
the विधेयक थी a major part of President Bill Clinton 's agenda in his first term.
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C. sec. 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) और it took प्रभाव on अगस्त 5, 1993, छह महीने बाद.
The FMLA was intended `` to balance the demands of the workplace with the needs of परिवारों. ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period to attend to the serious health condition of the employee, जनक, जीवनसाथी or चाइल्ड, or लिये गर्भावस्था or परवाह of a नवजात चाइल्ड, or लिये अपनाना or foster care of a child.
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave, an employee must have been at the business at least 12 महीने, और worked at तनिक 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने, and work at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles.
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees, but certain categories of employees are excluded, including elected officials और उनके निजी staff members.
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, and कंबोडिया इससे 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
इस युद्ध followed the पहला इंडोचायना युद्ध और was fought between North Vietnam, supported by its communist allies, and the government of South Vietnam, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front, or nlf ), a हलके हथियारबंद दक्षिण वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट आम सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर, largely fought a guerrilla war against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam People 's फौज ( उत्तर वियतनामी फौज ) सगाई in a more conventional war, at times committing large units into battle.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air बड़प्पन और overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy operations, involving ground forces, artillery, and airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the war as a way to prevent a communist takeover of South Vietnam as भाग of उनके wider रणनीति of containment.
The North Vietnamese सरकारी और viet cong यहूद लड़ to reunify Vietnam under communist rule.
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war, fought initially against France, backed by the U.S., और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम, which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state.
American military advisors arrived in what was तब फ्रेंच इंडोचायना शुरूआत in 1950.
u.S. भागीदारी escalated in the जल्दी 1960s, with troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units यहूद तैनात beginning in 1965.
Operations spanned international borders, with Laos और कंबोडिया heavily bombed.
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968, at the time of the Tet Offensive.
After this, u.S. मैदान शक्तियां यहूद gradually withdrawn as part of a policy known as Vietnamization.
Despite the पेरिस सलाम accords, हस्ताक्षरित by all parties in January 1973, fighting continued.
U.S. military भागीदारी ended on 15 अगस्त 1973 as a result of the Case–Church Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
The कैप्चर of साइगॉन by the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित the end of the war, and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year.
The war exacted a huge human cost in terms of fatalities ( देखिए वियतनाम युद्ध casualties ).
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians मारे vary इससे 800,000 to 3.1 लाख.
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 Laotians, and 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the conflict.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes पहुँचे a ऊँचाई of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic प्लेटों हैं diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually not created जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड पास्ट one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the कुएं gray-clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This type of volcanism falls अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from थाली सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों, नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those साथ जेट इंजन where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines.
A deep pothole on New York City 's दूसरी एवेन्यू
A pothole ( sometimes called a केतली और ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a प्रकार of disruption in the surface of a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away, leaving a hole.
Renal cell कार्सिनोमा ( rcc, भी ज्ञात as hypernephroma ) is a गुर्दा कर्कट that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the very small tubes in the kidney that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the most common type of kidney कर्कट in वयस्कों, जिम्मेदार लिये approximately 80 % of cases.
It is भी ज्ञात to be the सबसे lethal of all the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is most commonly a radical or partial nephrectomy और remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year survival rate is 60-70 %, लकिन इस is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases have स्प्रेड.
It is relatively resistant to विकिरण चिकित्सा और कीमोथेरेपी, although some cases respond to immunotherapy.
targeted कर्कट therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC.
Estée Lauder Companies, Inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of प्रतिष्ठा skincare, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.
the कम्पनी has its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, New York City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes और कुछ invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue.
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal organs and serves as a conduit for their रक्त और लसीका बरतन और nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal muscles, diaphragm and pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal स्पेस ( स्तिथ within the abdominal cavity, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the kidneys ), and those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in उपभोक्ता लैपटॉप और desktop computers.
DDR SDRAM आधारित SSD.
Max और.
PCI attached IO त्वरक SSD
PCI-E, dram, और NAND based SSD.
it उपयोग an बाह्य power supply to make the DRAM non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state डिस्क or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक disk, though it contains no actual `` disk '' of any kind ) is a data storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently.
SSD technology uses इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अंतरफलक compatible with traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard डिस्क ड्राइव ( hdds ) or floppy disks, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared with electromechanical disks, SSDs are typically less susceptible to physical shock, much quieter, have निम्नतर अभिगम समय, और less latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has जारी to मनाही in 2012, ssds हैं still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of storage than HDDs.
अनेक ssds use I/O interfaces developed for hard disk drives, thus permitting simple replacement in common applications.
, most SSDs use nand-based flash memory, which retains data without power.
For applications requiring fast access, but not necessarily data हठ बाद शक्ति घाटा, ssds may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ).
Such devices may employ separate शक्ति स्त्रोत, ऐसे as बैटरी, to maintain data after power loss.
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( sshd ) combine the सुविधाएँ of ssds और hdds in the वही ईकाई, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.
These devices may offer near-ssd प्रदर्शन लिये many applications.
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( सही ) परोसा साथ mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
ossetra caviar, सामन creme fraiche, potato shallot croquette, basil oil, egg whites and yolks
Caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, is a product made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the acipenseridae परिवार.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, साथ pasteurization reducing its culinary and economic value.
Traditionally the term caviar refers only to roe from wild sturgeon in the कैस्पियन और Black Seas ( Beluga, Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
depending on the देश, caviar may भी be प्रयुक्त to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, and other species of sturgeon.
caviar is माना a लक्ज़री कोमलता and is eaten as a garnish or a spread.
in 2012, caviar बेची for $ 2,500 per pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo.
The SEC Network is a television syndication network featuring live broadcasts of college football and बास्केट कार्यक्रम इससे the southeastern Conference.
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and is shown in more than 50 percent of households in the संयुक्त राज्य, ज़्यादातर Southeastern United States markets.
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot that was पूर्व घर to the raycom Sports SEC game of the week.
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations, regional खेल संजाल, as खूब as on ESPN GamePlan, ESPN Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
The SEC Network is also available in कनाडा via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen ग्राफिक्स फिलहाल प्रयुक्त by ईएसपीएन on एबीसी, a version of ESPN 's graphics package.
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because most of its affiliates do not Letterbox their Standard Definition feeds, while ESPN 's टेलीविज़न संजाल have allowed their graphics to abandon the title safe, but letterbox for SD viewers.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season, SEC Network 's graphics have been परिवर्तित to a 16:9 widescreen-only स्वरूप.
This is भी होने प्रयुक्त लिये the 2013 Basketball season, but had still adapted the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season.
The 1990s, pronounced and also ज्ञात as `` the nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade that began on January 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
it थी the 10th और पिछला दशक of the 20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the समाप्त of the ठंडा युद्ध at the शुरूआत of the decade and the expansion and commercialization of the Internet during the second half of the decade.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity, though many parts of the so-called Third World faced various problems including genocide, AIDS and new or continuing जातीय tensions and civil wars.
Culturally speaking the decade was characterized by the वृद्धि of बहुसंस्कृतिवाद और alternative media.
Movements such as grunge, the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young people during the दशक, aided by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism, the beginning of the widespread proliferation of new media ऐसे as the अंतरजाल, और the विच्छेद of the सोवियत संघ led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world, and within countries.
Income inequality among countries in the world rose sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s, before levelling off and then falling after 2000.
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus, the former two which led to the Rwandan genocide और बोस्नियाई नरसंहार, क्रमशः.
The United States began its current military occupation of the Middle East during the summer of 1990 with Desert शील्ड after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply.
Signs of any रेज़ोल्यूशन of तनाव between इसराईल and the Arab world remained elusive, though the Irish Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence.
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid देशी to the wilderness and remote areas of North America, Eurasia, and North Africa.
It is the largest member of its परिवार, साथ males averaging, and females.
It is similar in general रूप और proportions to a German shepherd, or sled dog, but has a larger head, narrower chest, longer legs, straighter tail and bigger paws.
Its winter fur is long and bushy, and predominantly a mottled gray in रंग, हालांकि nearly pure श्वेत, red, or brown to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ), as demonstrated by इसके morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल prey, its more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior.
It is a social animal, travelling in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair, accompanied by the जोड़ी 's वयस्क offspring.
The gray wolf is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout its range, with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It feeds primarily on large ungulates, हालांकि it भी eats छोटी animals, livestock, carrion, and garbage.
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most well शोधकार्य पशु, साथ संभवतः अधिक books written about it than any other wildlife species.
It has a long history of association with humans, having been despised और hunted in सबसे agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes.
It is the एकमात्र पूर्वज of the dog, which was first domesticated in the Middle East.
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many human societies, the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to पशु कष्ट इससे rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people, mainly children, but this is unusual, as भेड़ियों हैं अपेक्षाकृत few, सजीव दूर इससे लोगों, and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping रै घटाया the प्रजाति ' दायरा to, though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level, and is therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
the 500-year-old रोमन गणतंत्र, जिससे preceded it, had been destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several कार्यक्रम चिह्नित the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire यहूद a काल of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its महानतम expanse दौरान the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a संकट कि threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
ईसाइयों रोज़ to शक्ति in the 4th सदी, दौरान which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the West in the 5th century, the eastern half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, दर्शनशास्त्र, विधि, और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public sector, with control and funding coming from three levels : local, state, and federal, in कि अनुक्रम.
Child education is अनिवार्य, और वहीँ हैं भी a विशाल क्रमांक और चौड़ी किस्में of higher education institutions throughout the country that one can choose to attend, both publicly and privately administered.
पब्लिक शिक्षा is universally available.
School curricula, funding, teaching, employment, and other policies are set through locally elected स्कूल फलक साथ क्षेत्राधिकार over school districts with many directives from state legislatures.
School districts are usually separate इससे अन्य लोकल jurisdictions, साथ independent officials and budgets.
Educational standards and standardized परीक्षण निर्णय हैं usually made by state governments.
The ages for compulsory education vary by राज्य.
It begins from ages five to eight और ends from ages fourteen to eighteen.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in public schools, state-certified निजी स्कूलों, or an स्वीकृत home school program.
In most public and private schools, education is विभाजित into तीन स्तर : elementary स्कूल, middle school ( sometimes called junior high school ), and high school ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost all schools at these levels, children are divided by age groups into grades, ranging from किंडरगार्टन ( followed by पहला ग्रेड ) लिये the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the final year of high school.
The सटीक आयु दायरा of students in these grade levels varies slightly from area to area.
Post-secondary education, better known as `` college `` in the United States, is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school system, और is वर्णित in a separate section below.
Government supported, free public schools for all started being established after the क्रान्ति, और विस्तारित in the 19th सदी, as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
by 1870, all states had free elementary schools, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th century drew nearer, states started passing laws to मेक schooling अनिवार्य, और by 1910, 72 प्रतिशत of children attended school.
Private schools continued to spread during this time, as well as colleges and—in the ग्रामीण centers— land grant colleges.
The साल of 1910 भी देखी the पहला true high schools.
During the rest of the 20th century, educational efforts centered on reducing the असमानता of the schooling प्रणाली.
The landmark Supreme अदालत मामला भूरा v. फलक of शिक्षा बना the desegregation of elementary and high schools a national priority, while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college.
Special education was made into federal विधि in 1975.
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 made standardized testing a requirement, और in 1983, a आयोग was established to evaluate their results and propose a course of action.
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 was controversial and its goals proved to be unrealistic.
A commission established in 2006 evaluated higher education, but its सुझाव have yet to be fully implemented.
Paul Bragg ( February 6, 1895 – दिसम्बर 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement.
Health spending per capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों in Canada and the United States are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada, on both a per-capita आधार और as a प्रतिशत of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कि year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in Canada was financed by government, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have come to different conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in कनाडा और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than कि of the u.S., लकिन वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's दरजा of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा प्रदर्शन '', जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य, the distribution of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different जातिगत मेकअप and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The WHO 's पढ़ाई methods were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह, assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान, a हाल रपट by the congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound सोर्स रै अभी टूटा through the ध्वनि speed barrier, and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the sound waves it creates, it दरअसल लीड the advancing wavefront.
The sound source होगा pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( with a speed ) before the observer actually hears the sound it creates.
as a परिणाम, an observer in front of the source will detect
और an observer behind the source.
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92, गणना इससे the कोन कोण of 20 degrees.
An निरीक्षक hears the बूम जब the shock wave, on the edges of the cone, crosses his or her location.
mach कोन angle
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves created by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound.
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound energy, sounding much जैसे an विस्फोट.
The crack of a supersonic bullet passing overhead is an उदाहरण of a सोनिक boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by Jay Leno that initially aired from May 25, 1992 to May 29, 2009, and resumed उत्पादन on कूच 1, 2010.
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show मताधिकार बना its debut on May 25, 1992, three days following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program.
The कार्यक्रम originates इससे एनबीसी studios in burbank, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और is ब्रॉडकास्ट सोमवार through Friday at 11:35 PM in the Eastern and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike कार्सन or उसके पूर्ववर्ती Jack Paar, Leno only once utilized a guest host, preferring to host the series by himself.
On April 26, 1999, the show began प्रसारण in 1080i HDTV, becoming the first American nightly talk show to be shot in high definition.
The show is shot in 16:9 पहलू अनुपात.
The series, which followed the same basic format as that of his predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by comedy routines, interviews and प्रदर्शन ), भागा जबतक may 29, 2009, बाद जिससे लीनो थी succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
NBC signed Leno to a नई सौदे लिये a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled The Jay Leno Show, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a समान स्वरूप to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program, जिससे premiered जून 1, 2009, nor The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected.
The network decided to मूव a सघन 30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot, and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision met with opposition from O'Brien, whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January 22, 2010, after which he began उसके अपना बात दिखाएँ on TBS.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and current incarnation, the छठे of the मताधिकार, on March 1, 2010.
RFID chip अगला to a अनाज of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in उपभोक्ता उत्पाद, and implanted in pets, for identification purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The टैग contain electronically stored information.
कुछ टैग हैं संचालित और पढ़ा at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a बैटरी, or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating EM field, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, and may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked object.
rfid टैग हैं used in many industries.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track इसके प्रगति through the assembly line.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and पालतु may have टैग injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or भी implanted भीतर लोगों, the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
Id, ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund Freud 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the तीन सैद्धांतिक constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described.
According to this मॉडल of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical and moralizing role ; and the ego is the organized, realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you from doing certain things that your id may want you to do.
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, ego and super-ego are functions of the mind rather than parts of the दिमाग और do नहीं correspond one-to-one साथ वास्तविक दैहिक structures of the दयालु dealt साथ by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in उसके 1920 निबन्ध `` परे the ख़ुशी Principle `` and was formalized and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id ``.
Freud 's proposal was बहकावे by the ambiguity of the term `` unconscious `` and its many conflicting uses.
Air फ़ोर्स rotc emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air फ़ोर्स, the अन्य दो होने the United States Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ).
A अधीनस्थ कमांड of the एयर विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the एयर शिक्षा और प्रशिक्षण Command ( AETC ), AFROTC is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The Holm Center, formerly known as the Air Force Officer accession और प्रशिक्षण स्कूलों ( AFOATS ), retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest और oldest source of commissioned officers for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC 's stated मिशन is to उपज विशेषता leaders for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984 additional institutions of higher सीखना participating in cross-town agreements that allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university.
According to AFOATS HQ, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF दूसरी lieutenants, साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
afrotc इकाई at कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों हैं पुकारा `` detachments, '' और हैं typically headed by an क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the rank of colonel or lieutenant colonel who functions as both the Detachment Commander for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community.
सबसे कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों will designate the AFROTC detachment as the Department of Aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace Studies ( APAS ), all active ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारियों in the ranks of major or captain.
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned अधिकारी होगा typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution.
Within AFROTC detachments, the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into विंग्स, groups, squadrons, and flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the पहला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण, and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training.
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the अकादमिक कक्षा कार्यक्रम ( aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e., Leadership Laboratory, Physical Training, and other training ).
Paper density ( also known as आधार वज़न और grammage ) is a पद प्रयुक्त in the गूदा और पेपर उद्योग और भी for fabric industry to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The term `` density '' is not used in its traditional sense of द्रव्यमान प्रति ईकाई आवाज़.
`` Paper density '', rather, is a measure of the क्षेत्रफल घनत्व.
Paper products that let little or no light pass through ( e.g. poster board ) are considered घना or heavy.
Paper products that allow some light to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) are considered lightweight.
In the pulp and paper industry, it is आम to नियत a वाणिज्यिक paper machine to produce paper to a target paper density.
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter usually has a grammage वृहद than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing paper density are commonly उपयोगd:
Expressed in गामा प्रति वर्गाकार मीटर ( g/m2 ), paper density is also known as grammage.
This is the measure used in most parts of the world.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per number of चादरें, it is ज्ञात as basis weight.
The convention used in the संयुक्त राज्य और a few other countries using US paper sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw, still uncut ) basis size.
Japanese पेपर is expressed as the weight in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born अप्रैल 19, 1986 ) is an American basketball player for the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger sister of NBA खिलाड़ी Anthony Parker.
She attended the University of Tennessee and was drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the पहला स्त्री to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the first woman to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
वो भी became only the second player to dunk in a WNBA game on June 22, 2008.
A versatile player, she is mainly a forward, but was listed on Tennessee 's roster as a आगे, बीच, and guard.
She was a starter on the Lady Vols basketball team, विजेता of the 2007 और 2008 ncaa championships.
Parker won the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice पुरस्कार as the पसंदीदा मादा खिलाड़ी in the sports category.
And she was a अतिथि star on Figure It Out.
A food guide pyramid is a pyramid shaped मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ भोजन विभाजित into भाग to दिखाएँ the अनुशंसित सेवन for each food group.
The first food पिरामिड थी प्रकाशित in Sweden in 1974.
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by the United States Department of Agriculture in the साल 1992, थी अद्यतनीकृत in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
Over 25 other countries and संगठनों have भी प्रकाशित food pyramids.
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; अप्रैल 2, 1805august 4, 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet.
Although a सफल लेखक of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, Andersen is best remembered for his fairy tales, a literary genre he so mastered that he himself has become as mythical as the tales he wrote.
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; उसके stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express themes that transcend age and nationality.
During his lifetime he was acclaimed लिये having प्रसन्न children worldwide and was feted by royalty.
Andersen 's fairy tales, which have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally embedded in the West 's collective consciousness, readily accessible to children, but presenting lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well.
They have inspired motion तस्वीरें, plays, नाटिकाओं, और animated films.
Two figures locking eyes in caravaggio 's The Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs जब `` दो लोगों look at each other 's eyes at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye contact is a form of nonverbal communication and is thought to have a large influence on सोशल behavior.
Coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the पद रै आइये in the West to often define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication.
The customs and significance of नजर सम्पर्क vary widely between cultures, with religious and social differences often altering its meaning greatly.
the पढ़ाई of eye contact is sometimes known as oculesics.
Bed bugs are parasitic कीट of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius, the common bed bug, is the best known as it prefers to feed on human blood although other Cimex species हैं specialized to अन्य पशु, e.g., चमगादड़ बग, C. pipistrelli ( यूरोपीय ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : गरम घरों और विशेषकर आसपास or अंदर of beds and bedding or other sleep areas.
Bed बग हैं मुख्यतः active at night, but are not exclusively nocturnal.
They प्रायः फीड on उनके hosts without being noticed.
A number of adverse health effects may result from bed bug bites, including skin rashes, psychological प्रभाव, और allergic लक्षण.
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs and the occurrence of संगत लक्षण.
Bed bugs have been known as human parasites for हज़ारों of सालो.
At a point in the early 1940s, they were mostly eradicated in the developed world, but have increased in व्यापकता since 1995.
Because infestation of human habitats has been on the बढ़ाएँ, bed कीड़ा bites और related conditions have been on the rise as well.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the latter नबियों in the Hebrew Bible, preceding Ezekiel, Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve.
( The order of the subsequent books differs somewhat in the ईसाई बूढ़ा वसीयत ).
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God, while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section includes the गीतों of the कष्ट नौकर, चार पृथक passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah son of Amoz, but now scholars widely agree that the book is the कार्य of तीन अलग लेखक - few विद्वानों इनकार इस view, and those that do, do so for theological reasons.
the पहला, termed proto-isaiah ( अध्याय 1–39 ), contains the शब्द of the 8th-century bce नबी साथ 7th-century bce expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the Babylonian captivity ; and the third, the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile, probably by multiple authors.
Oregon State University ( OSU ) is a coeducational, पब्लिक शोध university located in Corvallis, Oregon, United States.
The university offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral डिग्री और a multitude of शोध अवसर.
There are more than 200 academic degree programs offered through the विश्वविद्यालयों.
OSU 's programs in microbiology, नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी, पारिस्थितिकी, वानिकी, पब्लिक health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs.
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the संस्था.
More than 200,000 people have attended OSU since its founding.
The Carnegie न्यास classifies ऑरेगॉन State University as part of its top tier of research institutions.
As of 2008, OSU is एक of तभी seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant और sun-grant संस्था, making it one of only two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ).
As one of the दो फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the ऑरेगॉन विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली, osu receives more funding for research, annually, than all other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of द्रव by इंसान महिलाओं इससे the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in कुछ शोध publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals, which is also सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the existence of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of छोटी, air-breathing जमीन घोंघा, a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae, the amber snails.
The common name of the amber snails is based on the shell, which is translucent and when खाली प्रायः resembles एम्बर in color.
This species is endemic to the United राज्य, specifically the state of Arizona and Utah, where it was first collected in the early 20th century.
It has महरूम सूचीबद्ध as endangered on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service list of endangered species since 8 August 1991.
This snail lives in wetlands, springs, and seeps, and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes, a मर्ग निकट kanab, यूटा, और vasey 's स्वर्ग, a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो नदी भीतर Grand Canyon National Park.
In its natural habitat it is rather polyphagous, feeding mainly on bacteria, पौधे और fungi, और reproduces during the summer.
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors ( including influence ), the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water स्तर साथ the कोलोराडो नदी.
The Spanish language is the second most used भाषा in the United States.
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are speakers of Chinese, फ्रेंच, जर्मनी, इतालवी, हवाई, और the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, स्पेनी is the primary language spoken at home by almost 37 million people aged five or older, a figure more than double that of 1990.
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language, as well as six million Spanish language students, composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community outside of Mexico and बनाना स्पेनी the रोमांस भाषा और the indo-european language with largest number of native speakers in the world.
Roughly half of सब u.S. स्पेनी अध्यक्षों भी बोलो English `` very well, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of स्पेनी colonists in क्षेत्रों कि होता बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, टेक्सास, कोलोराडो, नई मैक्सिको, एरिज़ोना, नेवाडा, Utah, and California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states-.
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French रिकवरी of territory ), बाद the फ्रेंच and Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century, the Spanish language was later reinforced by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later waves of the Hispanic emigration, basically from Hispanic America, to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today.
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स material ''.
Sic may भी refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in रोमानिया
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय कोड लिये सिसिली
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a कनाडाई noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band Slipknot on the एल्बम slipknot
SIC, the आरंभिक of मार्को Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting सामग्री, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for आर्थिक क्रियाएँ
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स Council
the Swiss interbank clearing system
San Isidro Club, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee समर्पित to the निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the field of आंकडे
second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema Interconectado Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a टेलीविज़न channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City, New Jersey, a तटीय कस्बा in the United States
Segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit, a motor racing venue in शंघाई, चीन
Simplified instructional computer, a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर used in systems programming
SIC ( बेटे idées couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year Junior College in harrisburg, इलिनोइस, संयुक्त States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly known as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College, Riverview, a Jesuit school in सिडनी, ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five smiling young girls in various poses wearing white smocks over thigh-length पोशाक of समान color to their hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and anime series features a cast of characters designed by मिया Ikumi.
The series takes place in Tokyo, Japan, where पाँच adolescent लड़कियों, पुकारा mew Mews, are infused with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth.
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series, Tokyo Mew Mew a la विधि, जिससे introduces a नई mew mew और a new threat.
The Mew Mews are led by the main character, Ichigo Momomiya, whose first task is to gather the other चार mew mews : मिंट aizawa, सलाद midorikawa, खीर फोंग, और zakuro fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on masaya aoyama to बनने उसके girlfriend while trying to hide her secret double life from him.
The श्रेणी antagonists include three aliens, Kish, Pie, and Tart, and their leader, Deep Blue.
Originally from Earth, the aliens were forced to leave long ago due to घातक पर्यावरणीय परिवर्तन.
They have returned to मार the इंसानो, जो वे महसूस हैं destroying their planet, and reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew और, in the अनुपस्थिति of ichigo, the अस्थाई leader of the Mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces नई नियत of antagonists, the Saint Rose Crusaders, a group of human teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make अनेक कोशिशें to kill Berry, eventually turning the local populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo Black Cat Girl that featured a cat-girl battling एलियन आक्रमणकारियों.
After the story was transitioned to a अधिक upbeat स्टोरी of पाँच मादा superheroes, the character designs were redone to have a lighter, more colorful feel.
The main series characters were praised for being a perfect fit for the overall story, as well as लिये उनके cute दिखावे.
The characters introduced in a la विधि यहूद also praised for their visual appearances, but criticized as being repeats of the original series.
The character Duke was also criticized for having a design reminiscent of the श्वेत सर्वोच्चता समूह, the ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( ऊपर ), वर्जिन Formation, southwestern Utah, USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the धरती 's सतह और भीतर लाशें of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution.
अणु कि रूप a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, हवा, बर्फ, द्रव्यमान गति or ग्लेशियर जिससे are called agents of denudation.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be तभी 8 % of the कुल आवाज़ of the crust.
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a क्रस्ट consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are deposited in layers as strata, forming a ढांचा called bedding.
The study of sedimentary rocks और चट्टान strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface कि is उपयोगी लिये सिविल engineering, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural संसाधन like coal, fossil fuels, drinking water or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the प्रमुख सोर्स लिये वैज्ञानिक knowledge about the Earth 's history, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
The scientific discipline that अध्ययन the गुण और उत्पत्ति of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology.
Sedimentology is दोनो भाग of भूविज्ञान और शारीरिक भूगोल और overlaps partly साथ other disciplines in the Earth sciences, such as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or structural geology.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of which fuse together into a longitudinal axis, the axial कंकाल, to जिससे the appendicular कंकाल is संलग्न.
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland.
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '', he is the primary patron saint of the island along साथ संतो brigid और Columba.
Two authentic letters from him survive, from which come the only generally स्वीकृत विवरण of उसके जीवन.
When he was about 16, he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to Ireland, where he lived for six years before escaping और returning to उसके परिवार.
After becoming a cleric, he returned to northern and western आयरलैंड as an ordained बिशप, लकिन छोटी is ज्ञात परिचय the places where he worked.
By the सातवाँ सदी, he had already come to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
Most available details of his life are इससे subsequent hagiographies, and these are now not accepted without detailed criticism.
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in आयरलैंड in 432, ministered in Ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( विचार to औसत palladius ) और `` Patrick, archapostle of the Scots, '' who died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but, on a widespread interpretation, he was active as a missionary in Ireland दौरान the second half of the 5th century.
He is generally credited with being the पहला bishop of Armagh, Primate of All Ireland.
Saint पैट्रिक 's दिन is observed on कूच 17, the date of his death.
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland, as both a धार्मिक और, विशेषकर outside Ireland, secular holiday.
In the dioceses of आयरलैंड, it is both a solemnity and a holy day of obligation ; outside Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
लकीर खण्ड in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a और shorter पक्ष b, जब लगाई सटा to a वर्गाकार साथ पहलू of length a, will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a.
This illustrates the संबंध.
In mathematics and the arts, two quantities are in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger मात्रा is बराबर to the अनुपात of the larger quantity to the smaller one.
The figure on the सही illustrates the geometric relationship.
Expressed algebraically:
where the Greek letter phi ( ) represents the सुनहरी ratio.
इसके value is:
The golden ratio is also called the golden section ( Latin : sectio ओरिया ) or सुनहरी औसत.
Other names include extreme and mean ratio, medial section, divine proportion, दैवी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio divina ), golden proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the form of the golden rectangle, in which the ratio of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing इस proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio, including its appearance in the dimensions of a regular pentagon and in a golden rectangle, which can be काटें into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी आयताकार with the same aspect ratio.
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as well as man-made प्रणालियों ऐसे as वित्तीय बाज़ार, in कुछ मामले आधारित on संदिग्ध fits to data.
North myrtle बीच is a तटीय resort city in Horry County, South Carolina, United States.
It was created in 1968 इससे चार मौजूदा municipalities north of Myrtle Beach, and serves as one of the primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World War I ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी नीतियों of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया.
While the russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 और Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 और a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the युद्ध ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of राष्ट्र was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
camden is a नगर in camden County, New Jersey, United States.
It is the county seat, स्तिथ आरपार the Delaware River from Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी the नगर था a कुल जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344, representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) from the 79,904 residents enumerated during the 2000 Census, which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous नगरपालिका in the state in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13, 1828, from portions of the now-defunct Newton Township, while the area was still part of gloucester काउंटी.
on कूच 13, 1844, Camden became part of the newly formed Camden County.
Although once a thriving center for manufacturing and industry, Camden is perhaps best known for its struggles साथ शहरी dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have महरूम jailed लिये corruption, the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000.
Since 2005 the school system and police department have been operated by the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा expired in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent अपराधों प्रति 100,000 लोगों जबकि the नेशनल औसत was 455 per 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per छात्र ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 school year and two-thirds of the students graduate.
Two out of every five residents are नीचे the नेशनल poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, Elavil, Tryptizol, laroxyl, Saroten, Sarotex, Lentizol, Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the most widely प्रयुक्त tca और रै at तनिक बराबर efficacy विरूद्ध depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001.
As well as reducing depressive symptoms, these types of tricyclics also ease migraines, टेंशन headaches, anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also known to reduce आक्रामकता and violent behavior.
A computer is a general purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a finite set of arithmetic or logical operations.
Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than एक दयालु of प्रॉब्लम.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at तनिक एक प्रसंस्करण element, typically a central processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The processing element carries out arithmetic and logic operations, and a sequencing and control unit that can change the अनुक्रम of परिचालन आधारित on भंडारित सूचना.
परिधीय डिवाइस allow सूचना to be पुनर्प्राप्त from an external source, and the result of operations saved and retrieved.
The first इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिजिटल computers were developed between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States.
Originally वे यहूद the size of a large room, consuming as much power as several hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ).
In this era mechanical analog कंप्यूटर यहूद used for military applications.
Modern कंप्यूटर आधारित on एकीकृत circuits हैं लाखो to billions of times more capable than the early machines, and occupy a fraction of the space.
Simple computers are small enough to fit into मोबाईल डिवाइस, and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries.
Personal computers in their various forms are icons of the Information Age and are what most people सोचो of as “computers.”
However, the embedded कंप्यूटर मिला in अनेक डिवाइस इससे mp3 खिलाड़ी to fighter aircraft and from toys to industrial robots are the most numerous.
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the controversial idea that women should not work outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years.
It has several other meanings as well.
It is a फिगर of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot और गर्भवती '' was probably first used sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 राज्य, `` by जल्दी 1949, TWA was—in the words of its new president, Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may date as early as the 1910s.
An article published in 1958 राज्य the phrase थी पहला used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier.
`` Some forty years ago, Dr. Hertzler advanced a परिकल्पना जिससे यंग महिलाओं of आज seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a स्त्री happy, ' he said, 'is to keep her barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated जातियाँ भीतर समंदर township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य Census, the CDP 's population was 3,995.
University of Phoenix Stadium, opened August 1, 2006, is a multipurpose football stadium located in Glendale, Arizona.
It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals of the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) और the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it features the first fully retractable natural grass playing surface built in the संयुक्त राज्य on top of an AirField Systems drainage system.
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the building, allowing the entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII, and the 2011 bcs नेशनल चैंपियनशिप खेल, a खेल कि it hosts every four years, which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
it होगा again मेजबान Super Bowl XLIX in 2015.
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming rights in September 2006, shortly after the स्टेडियम था खोली अंतर्गत the नाम कार्डिनल्स स्टेडियम.
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is applied as a corporate sponsor, and not as the घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( जिससे रै no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The stadium has also hosted the WWE event रेसलमेनिया xxvi with 72,219 fans in attendance.
The event was held in the stadium on March 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as लॉरेंस जोशुआ चेम्बरलेन, was an American college professor from the State of Maine, who volunteered during the American Civil War to join the Union Army.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer, reaching the रैंक of ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य ( और brevet प्रमुख general ).
For his gallantry at Gettysburg, he was awarded the पदक of सम्मान.
He was given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the आत्मसमर्पण रस्म for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he entered politics as a Republican and served four one-year शर्तें of दफ्तर as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
He served on the faculty, and as president, of उसके अल्मा मेटर, Bowdoin College.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – most notably cricket and baseball during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from स्कोरिंग.
In cricket, the term innings is both singular and plural and is always spelled और सुनाया साथ the टर्मिनल `` s ''.
In baseball and softball, the singular form is inning और तभी the बहुवचन takes an `` s ''.
In many other sports, the length of the खेल is लिखवाई by a क्लॉक और टीमों swap offensive and defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item.
In baseball and cricket, however, one team, said to be `` batting '', attempts to score `` runs '' —see run ( baseball ) and run ( क्रिकेट ) —while the अन्य team, said to be `` fielding '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out.
The teams switch places after the fielding team has succeeded in getting a fixed number of players out, making a clock अनावश्यक.
In cricket, the term innings is also used to refer to the play of one particular खिलाड़ी ( स्मिथ था a ग़रीब पारी, scoring only 12 ).
By extension, this term can be used in British English for almost any activity which takes a period of time ( The Liberal सरकारी था a शुभ पारी, लकिन आखिरकार खोया दफ्तर in 1972, or तुम 've था a मेला पारी, now it 's my turn, meaning `` you have spoken for long enough, now let me speak '' ).
It is also used in reference to someone who has died at a reasonably old age or lived a rich और rewarding जीवन ( ah, खूब.
John was 89.
At least he had a शुभ पारी ).
The baseball-derived parallel to इस in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी is the term at bat.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the term innings रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in reference to cricket since at least 1735.
As cricket was a mature, highly organized sport in the 1600s in England, the term 's origin could खूब precede इस पहला अंकित उपयोग.
The word inning अर्थ 'a महफ़िल in ' is first recorded in 1522, and could be related.
Adenosine deaminase कमियां, भी पुकारा एडीए कमियां or ADA-SCID, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in कम than one in 100,000 live births worldwide.
it खाते लिये परिचय 15 % of all cases of severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
It is very विरल, तुम have a 3 % chance of getting this gene.
ADA कमियां may be present in infancy, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and severity is related to some 29 known genotypes संबद्ध साथ the disorder.
An example of शहरी गरीबी in this slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one who lacks a certain राशि of सामग्री possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of basic human needs, which commonly includes food, water, स्वच्छता, कपडे, आश्रय, स्वास्थ्य परवाह और शिक्षा.
Relative poverty is defined contextually as economic inequality in the location or समाज in which people live.
For much of history, poverty was considered largely अपरिहार्य as traditional modes of production were insufficient to give an entire population a comfortable standard of living.
After the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, mass production in factories made wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
Of more महत्व is the modernization of agriculture, such as fertilizers, in order to provide enough yield to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on government services such as भ्रष्टाचार, कर avoidance, कर्ज़ और ऋण conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more सस्ती typically शामिल welfare, economic freedoms, and providing financial services.
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन such as the United Nations and the World Bank.
The World Bank estimated 1.29 billion लोगों यहूद जीना in निरपेक्ष poverty in 2008.
Of these, about 400 लाख लोगों in absolute poverty lived in India and 173 million people in China.
In यूएसए 1 in 5 children lives in poverty.
In terms of percentage of क्षेत्रीय populations, sub-saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty in 2008.
Between 1990 and 2010, about 663 लाख लोगों स्थानांतरित above the absolute poverty level.
Still, extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it is observed in all भाग of the संसार, सहित the विकसित economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह प्रभाव from ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom.
ये लक्षण can vary इससे पतला gastrointestinal discomfort to death.
The toxins present हैं द्वितीयक metabolites उत्पादित in विशिष्ट biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom विषाक्तता is प्रायः the परिणाम of ingestion of जंगली मशरूम after misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species.
The most common reason for this misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप in terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species.
Even very experienced जंगली मशरूम gatherers are upon rare occasion poisoned by eating toxic species, despite being well aware of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with the mushrooms वे intend to collect as खूब as with any similar-looking toxic species.
In addition, edibility of mushrooms may निर्भर on विधि of preparation for cooking.
Collectors also need to be well aware that edibility or toxicity of some प्रजाति varies साथ भौगोलिक location.
इंसान ऊँचाई is the अलहदा इससे the bottom of the feet to the top of the head in a human body, standing erect.
When populations share genetic पृष्ठभूमि और पर्यावरणीय factors, average height is frequently characteristic within the group.
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which are चिकित्सा शर्तें caused by विशिष्ट जीनों or अंतःस्रावी abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may account for विलम्बित विकास and/or ( in कठोर मामले ) चिह्नित reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the पहला इंसानो, अमेरिकी neil आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ Aldrin, on the Moon on July 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the first to step onto the lunar सतह 6 घंटों बाद on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent about two and a half hours outside the spacecraft, एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; और साथ वे एकत्रित of lunar material for return to Earth.
A third member of the mission, Michael Collins, piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit जबतक आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन लौटे to it बस अंतर्गत a day later for the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Merritt Island, Florida on July 16, अपोलो 11 थी the पांचवां मानवयुक्त मिशन of NASA 's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin लिये the तीन astronauts जिससे थी the तभी भाग जिससे उतरा वापस on धरती ; a Service Module which supported the Command Module with propulsion, electrical power, oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon.
After being sent to the Moon by the शनि v 's अपर स्टेज, the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into the चंद्र मोड्यूल और landed in the Sea of Tranquility.
They stayed a total of about 21 and a half घंटों on the चंद्र सतह.
After lifting off in the upper भाग of the चंद्र मोड्यूल और rejoining कॉलिन्स in the Command Module, they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the lunar सतह और वर्णित the इवेंट as `` one small step for [ a ] man, one giant leap for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a national goal proposed in 1961 by the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress, `` before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are Spain, जो जीती the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A योग्यता phase, जिससे फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight अलग नेशनल teams.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the तभी टोली to have निभाई in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, और स्पेन, साथ एक शीर्षक each.
The World Cup is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, रूस in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate और व्यवस्थित विनाश, in whole or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group.
It is defined in Article 2 of the सम्मेलन on the रोकथाम और दंड of the अपराधों of नरसंहार ( cppcg ) of 1948 as `` कोई of the following अधिनियमों वचनबद्ध साथ intent to नष्ट, in पूरे or in भाग, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of life, calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
Skulls of पीड़ितों of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` genocide is a अपराधों अंतर्गत अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और condemned by the civilized world '', but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
determining कया ऐतिहासिक कार्यक्रम constitute a genocide and which are merely criminal or inhuman behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
In nearly every case where आरोपों of नरसंहार have परिचालित, partisans of various sides have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event, often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
an accusation of नरसंहार is certainly not taken lightly and will almost always be controversial.
The following list of genocides and कथित genocides चाहिए be समझा in this context and can not be regarded as the final word on these subjects.
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a flexible belt साथ teeth moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed बेल्ट प्रयुक्त to drive the camshaft ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture, but is also influenced by Native American, African, Asian, Polynesian, and लैटिन अमरीकी cultures.
अमरीकी संस्कृति प्रारंभ its formation over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the continental United States.
It has its own unique social and सांस्कृतिक विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect, म्यूज़िक, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of large-scale आव्रजन इससे अनेक अलग देशों throughout its history.
Its chief early यूरोपीय प्रभाव आए from English, Scottish, Welsh and Irish settlers of colonial America during British rule.
British culture, due to colonial ties with Britain that spread the English language, legal system and other cultural inheritances, had a formative influence.
Other important influences आए इससे अन्य भाग of पश्चिमी Europe, especially Germany, France, and Italy.
Original elements also play a strong role, ऐसे as the आविष्कार of jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an अमरीकी और a प्रतिक्रियावादी टुकड़ा to the prevailing European consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate.
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely American sports, military tradition, and नवप्रवर्तनों in the कला and entertainment give a strong sense of national pride among the population as a whole.
अमरीकी संस्कृति includes both conservative and liberal elements, scientific and religious competitiveness, political structures, risk taking and free expression, materialist and moral elements.
Despite certain सतत वैचारिक सिद्धान्त ( e.g. व्यक्तिगत, समतावाद, और आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और democracy ), American culture has a variety of expressions due to its geographical scale and demographic diversity.
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some शोधकर्ताओं to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति as a mythic identity ; others see it as American exceptionalism.
It also includes तत्व कि विकसित इससे स्वदेशी Americans, and other ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from Latin America, and Asian American cultures.
Many American सांस्कृतिक तत्व, विशेषकर from popular culture, have spread across the globe through modern mass media.
The United States has often been thought of as a melting घट, but beginning in the late 1990s and early 2000s, it trends towards cultural diversity, pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, there are many integrated लकिन अद्वितीय social subcultures within the United States.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, राजनैतिक अभिविन्यास और a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background, occupation and ethnic group membership.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands, comprising the स्वतंत्र देश of समोआ और the संयुक्त States territory of American Samoa.
It is an official language—alongside English —in both jurisdictions.
Samoan, a Polynesian भाषा, is the पहला language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000.
With many Samoan people living in other countries, the total number of speakers विश्वव्यापी is अनुमानित at 370,000.
The language is notable लिये the phonological मतभेद between औपचारिक और informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory.
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in जिससे ग्लूकोज is दिए और रक्त नमूने taken afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood.
The test is usually used to test for diabetes, insulin resistance, and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia और acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the test, an oral glucose tolerance test ( ogtt ), a मानक खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes, with different standard doses of glucose, different routes of administration, different intervals and durations of sampling, and विभिन्न substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About Me '' is a song written by गैरी तुषार और frances swan, first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top ; there, it was the second-highest selling सिंगल of 1982.
The success of the song led them to America where it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 chart.
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it managed to make Billboards top 100 Pop singles of 1983, at # 88, a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position.
The song made an unusual comeback in 1989, peaking at # 46.
On the left a chicken egg, the अंडा most commonly eaten by humans, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species, including birds, reptiles, amphibians, और मछली, और have been eaten by mankind for thousands of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( अंडा श्वेत ), and vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained within various thin membranes.
Popular choices for egg consumption are मुर्गा, बतख, बटेर, roe, और caviar, लकिन the egg most often consumed by humans is the chicken egg, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks और पूरे अंडे स्टोर significant amounts of protein and choline, and are widely used in cookery.
Due to their protein content, the United States Department of Agriculture ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे as meats भीतर the Food Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional मान of अंडे, there are some potential health issues arising from egg quality, storage, and individual allergies.
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the world, and द्रव्यमान उत्पादन of मुर्गा अंडे is a global industry.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 लाख मीट्रिक टन of अंडे were produced worldwide from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation, as well as current debates concerning methods of mass production, साथ the यूरोपीय संघ 's बैन on battery farming of chickens.
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer league representing the sport 's highest level in the United राज्य और कनाडा.
Sanctioned by the संयुक्त राज्य सॉकर संघ ( u.S. सॉकर ), the league is composed of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently run from March to December, with each टोली playing 34 खेल in the नियमित season.
Ten teams compete in the postseason MLS Cup playoffs culminating in the championship game, the MLS Cup.
प्रमुख लीग सॉकर थी संस्थापित in 1993 as part of the United States ' bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
the पहला ऋतु took प्लेस in 1996 beginning with ten teams.
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams, mls is a सिंगल एंटिटी जहाँ प्रत्येक टोली is owned and controlled by the league 's investors.
The league 's बंद सदस्यता makes it one of the world 's few soccer leagues not using promotion and relegation.
The वैधता of cannabis varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस निषेध in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of small quantities of cannabis, particularly in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is विधिक or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law, which governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of देशों, सहित Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
जबकि संघीय विधि in the संयुक्त राज्य bans सब बिक्री और कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस, प्रवर्तन varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana, most देशों have विभिन्न दंड ranging इससे lenient to बहुत कठोर.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, उपयोग, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस लिये recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation और a ठीक, बल्कि than कारावास.
Some क्षेत्राधिकारs/ ड्रग न्यायालयों उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम for young or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There हैं भी परिवर्तन in a अधिक restrictive direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple कब्ज़ा can carry long कारावास वाक्य in कुछ देशों, particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the आयतनी fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the सही ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical अभिव्यक्ति धमक EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling study of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly और inexpensively.
सरलीकृत, ejection भिन्न is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a mathematical term, Ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, largely in the mojave मरुस्थल.
The southern portion of the highway is signed as the Antelope Valley Freeway.
the रूट connects अंतरराज्यीय 5, or सुनहरी State Freeway, near Santa Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern.
legislatively, the रूट extends दक्षिण of i-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles, however the portion south of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the समुदायों of सांता clarita, palmdale और lancaster साथ the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
The northern portion, from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395, is legislatively नामित the Aerospace Highway, as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base, once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle.
This section is rural, following the लकीर between the hot mojave मरुस्थल and the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad, used for the Antelope Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a कनेक्शन between लॉस एंजिल्स और the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass.
Linked with US 395, this road connects Los Angeles साथ ऐसे स्थान as मैमथ पहाड़, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964, when U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast route इससे long बीच to provincetown, मैसाचुसेट्स.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from चांदी महारानी सड़क उत्तर of rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra Highway, as is the old routing between Interstate 5 and Silver Queen Road where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
portions of रूट 14 remain हस्ताक्षरित साथ names associated with US 6, including Midland Trail, Theodore Roosevelt Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway.
This route is part of the California Freeway और एक्सप्रेसवे प्रणाली.
Blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors.
Various scales have महरूम विकसित to describe the extent of vision loss and define blindness.
Total blindness is the complete lack of रूप और विज़ुअल लाइट बोध और is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is अक्सर प्रयुक्त to describe severe visual impairment with vision.
Those described as having तभी लाइट बोध have no more sight than the ability to tell light from dark and the general direction of a light source.
To determine which people may need special assistance because of their visual disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित अधिक जटिल परिभाषाएं referred to as विधिक blindness.
In North America and most of Europe, विधिक दृष्टिहीनता is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता ( दृष्टि ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible.
This means that a legally blind व्यक्तिगत होता have to स्टैंड इससे an object to see it—with corrective lenses —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from.
In many areas, people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of less than 20 degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) हैं भी वर्गीकृत as होने legally blind.
Approximately टेन प्रतिशत of those deemed legally blind, by any measure, have no vision.
The rest have some vision, from light perception alone to relatively good acuity.
Low vision is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), लकिन बराबर to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or corresponding visual field loss to less than 20 degrees, in the better eye with best possible correction.
दृष्टिहीनता is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता of कम than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or corresponding visual field loss to less than 10 degrees, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blind people with undamaged आँखें may स्टिल पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually लिये the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light signals लिये इस purpose सफर through the retinohypothalamic tract and are not affected by optic nerve damage beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born December 18, 1970 ), better known by उसके स्टेज names dmx और Dark Man X, is an American rapper and actor.
In 1999, dmx released उसके best-selling एल्बम... And Then There Was X, which featured the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films such as Belly, रोमियो जरूर die, निकास wounds, पालना 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
In 2006, he starred in the reality television series, which was primarily aired on the BET cable television network.
In 2003, DMX published a book of his memoirs हकदार, e.a.r.l. : The Autobiography of DMX.
DMX released a mixtape the तौल in as a prelude/promotion towards his album Undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX has sold over 30 million records worldwide, बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time.
Professional certification, trade certification, or professional नामांकन, प्रायः पुकारा बस प्रमाणन or योग्यता, is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an acknowledgement of शैक्षणिक उपलब्धि, or an agency appointed to safeguard the public interest.
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character, best remembered for his starring roles in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies श्रेणी of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by warner भाईs. दौरान the सुनहरी आयु of American animation.
His popularity during this era led to उसके बनने a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic धूसर हरे or खरगोश जो is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके flippant, व्यक्तित्व, a pronounced New York accent, his portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
कया 's up, doc ? ''
( प्रायः कहा while chewing a carrot ).
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon character and is the ninth most portrayed फिल्मी व्यक्तित्व in the world.
According to his 1990 `` biography '' बग बनी : 50 सालो और तभी एक धूसर Hare, Bugs was born on July 27, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York in a warren under Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
In reality, he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery, who directed Bugs ' early definitive short A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट mckimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; एकवचन mucosa ) हैं linings of mostly endodermal origin, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They line cavities that are उजागर to the बाह्य पर्यावरण and internal organs.
They are at several places contiguous with skin : at the nostrils, the lips of the mouth, the eyelids, the ears, the genital area, and the anus.
the स्टिकी, मोटा fluid secreted by the mucous membranes and glands is termed mucus.
the पद श्लेष्मक membrane refers to where they are found in the body and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans शिश्न ( सिर of the शिश्न ), साथ साथ the अंदर of the foreskin and the clitoral hood, are mucous membranes.
the urethra is also a mucous membrane.
The secreted mucus traps the pathogens in the body, preventing कोई further क्रियाएँ of diseases.
A master सार्जेंट is the military rank for a senior non-commissioned officer in some armed forces.
केक is a रूप of bread or bread-like food.
In its आधुनिक forms, it is typically a sweet baked dessert.
in इसके oldest फ़ॉर्म, cakes यहूद सामान्यतः fried breads or cheesecakes, and normally had a disk shape.
Determining whether a given food should be classified as bread, cake, or पेस्ट्री can be मुश्किल.
Modern cake, विशेषकर परत cakes, सामान्यतः contain a संयोजन of आटा, sugar, eggs, and butter or oil, with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts are often added, और numerous substitutions लिये the प्राथमिक संघटक are possible.
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or dessert sauces ( like pastry cream ), iced with buttercream or other icings, and सजा साथ marzipan, piped सीमायें or candied fruit.
Cake is often the मिठाई of चुनाव लिये meals at ceremonial occasions, particularly weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays.
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like, some rich and elaborate, और अनेक हैं centuries old.
Cake making is no longer a जटिल कार्यविधि ; जबकि at one time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake.
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an American Christian singer, evangelist, उद्योगों, लेखक, बात show host, and television personality.
She थी शादीशुदा इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, and later convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
वो co-hosted साथ him on The PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
She was a participant in the 2004 ऋतु of the reality show The Surreal Life.
Cambria is a village in Columbia काउंटी, विस्कॉन्सिन, संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 767 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the मैडिसन महानगर Statistical Area.
Public policy is the principled guide to action taken by the administrative executive branches of the state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and संस्थागत customs.
In general, the foundation is the pertinent नेशनल and substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation such as the US Federal code.
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations and regulations which are generally प्राधिकृत by विधान.
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, regulatory measures, laws, and funding प्राथमिकताएं concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives. ''
Public नीति is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, legislative acts, and judicial decisions. ''
In the United States, this concept refers not only to the result of policies, but more broadly to the decision-making और विश्लेषण of governmental decisions.
As an academic discipline, पब्लिक नीति is पढ़ाई by professors और विद्यार्थी at public policy schools of major universities throughout the country.
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners, शोधकर्ताओं, विद्वानों, और विद्यार्थी is the संघ for Public Policy Analysis and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical and chemical breakdown of food into छोटी components कि हैं अधिक easily absorbed into a blood stream, for instance.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a विश्लेषण of विशाल खाना अणुओं to smaller ones.
When food enters the mouth, digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication, a रूप of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
Saliva, a liquid secreted by the salivary glands, contains salivary amylase, an enzyme जिससे starts the digestion of starch in the food.
After undergoing mastication and starch digestion, the food will be in the रूप of a छोटी, गोलाकार slurry mass called a bolus.
It will then travel down the ग्रासनाल और into the पेट by the action of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the पेट starts protein digestion.
Gastric juice mainly contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड और pepsin.
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus is secreted by the stomach, providing a slimy layer कि अधिनियमों as a शील्ड विरूद्ध the damaging प्रभाव of the chemicals.
At the same time protein digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, which हैं लहरें of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall.
This allows the mass of food to further mix with the digestive enzymes.
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans, 4–6 hours in dogs, somewhat shorter duration in हाउस बिल्लियों ), the resulting thick liquid is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter वाल्व opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues.
जब the chyme is fully पचता, it is absorbed into the blood.
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine.
Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon ( large intestine ) जहाँ the ph is थोड़ा अम्लीय about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some विटामिन, ऐसे as biotin और विटामिन k ( k2mk7 ) उत्पादित by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon.
Waste material is eliminated from the मलाशय दौरान शौच.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, and later किंग, of आयरलैंड, as खूब as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry थी the दूसरी monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is known for his role in the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of England from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the monasteries, और उसके अपना स्थापना as the परम् Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, even बाद उसके excommunication इससे the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, and invaded France in 1513 with a विशाल, well-equipped फौज, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये हेनरी, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V, supported Henry only as long as he needed to and इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, and he has been described as `` one of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides सत्ताधारी साथ निरपेक्ष शक्ति, he also engaged himself as an author and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
हेनरी became रुग्ण obese and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in उसके बाद life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an Afro-Cuban percussion यंत्र.
The drums are of different size : the larger drum is पुकारा in स्पेनी the hembra ( मादा ) और the छोटी the मर्दाना ( male ).
They are membranophones, or instruments that बनाएँ ध्वनि by a vibration of a stretched membrane.
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons, in varying orders, और sometimes divide or combine किताबे, or चरितार्थ additional material into canonical books.
Christian bibles दायरा इससे the sixty-six किताबे of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four books divided into three parts ; the five books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ), and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old Testament, which contains, at minimum, the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine किताबे और ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible.
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches also hold certain deuterocanonical किताबे और passages to be part of the Old Testament canon.
The second part is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the चार canonical gospels, अधिनियमों of the Apostles, twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation.
The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in their lists of accepted books.
The list given here for these churches is the most inclusive : if at least एक पूर्वी गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the किताब it is included here.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी, श्वेत, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag include the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '', `` बूढ़ा Glory ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford,, also known as the Dred Scott Decision, was a लैंडमार्क निर्णय by the u.S. Supreme Court.
it बना two main rulings.
The first ruling was that African-Americans were not citizens, and therefore had no standing to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the संघीय government had no power to regulate slavery in any territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States.
Given the first ruling, most scholars and many contemporary political figures ( including the नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ) माना कि the second ruling was not binding precedent, but mere dictum.
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied कि लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent ( both slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, दोनो rulings हैं superseded and no longer valid precedent.
Nonetheless, the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever made by the Supreme Court.
The opinion of the court, लिखा by मुख्य इंसाफ Roger B. Taney, stirred debate.
The decision was 7–2, and प्रत्येक इंसाफ besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or dissent.
For the first time since Marbury v. Madison, the Court आयोजित an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional.
Dred Scott, an african-american स्लेव, था पूछा a संयुक्त राज्य सर्किट अदालत to पुरस्कार उसे उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी he और उसके निपुण had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned.
मुख्य इंसाफ रोजर taney, लिखने लिये the अदालत, held that Scott, as a person of African ancestry, was not a citizen of the United States and therefore had no right to sue in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time, particularly Free states, where free blacks किया in फैक्ट आनंद the अधिकारों of नागरिकों, ऐसे as the right to vote and hold public office.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court went on to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit slavery in federal territories because slaves are personal property and the Fifth amendment to the संविधान protects प्रॉपर्टी स्वामी विरूद्ध पिछडे of उनके प्रॉपर्टी बगैर due process of law.
In reaching this decision, Taney had hoped to settle the growing विवाद surrounding गुलामी in the संयुक्त States, but it had the opposite effect.
The decision was fiercely debated across the country, as perhaps best exemplified by the lincoln–douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever Republican nominee for President, was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further विस्तार of गुलामी थी a key Republican party plank.
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession and the Civil War, although it is चरम to कह the निर्णय `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is credited with शुभारंभ अब्राहम lincoln’s नेशनल political career and ultimately allowing for his election.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868, जिससे begins by stating, `` सब persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To which the अदालत नोटd:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is, that it puts at rest both the questions which we stated to have महरूम the विषय of मतभेद of राय.
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States बगैर लिहाज़ to उनके citizenship of a particular State, and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all persons born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States.
There are dozens of पड़ोस in Columbus, Ohio.
Some are hard to define, as they encompass विशाल क्षेत्रों विकसित at अलग times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them.
Borders can also change based on popular समझना of the क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the whims of the residents.
This article uses data इससे the datasourcecolumbus Web site, Spotcrime.com, HelloColumbus.com, as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
excerpts और किनारा information are drawn directly from the main articles.
A biologist is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन living organisms and their relationship to their environment.
Biologists involved in मौलिक शोध attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work.
Biologists involved in लागू शोध attempt to develop or improve medical, industrial or agricultural processes.
Martinus Willem Beijerinck, a वनस्पतिशास्त्री और microbiologist
Base कूद इससे a चट्टान in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. jumping, is an activity where participants jump from fixed objects and उपयोग a पैराशूट to ब्रेक उनके पतन.
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands लिये चार श्रेणी of fixed objects from which one can jump : buildings, antennas, spans ( bridges ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The British shorthair is a domesticated cat whose features make it a popular breed in cat shows.
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's Governing Council of the बिल्ली फैंसी ( gccf ) चूंकि 2001, जब it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team, commonly ज्ञात as the संयुक्त राज्य मेन 's national basketball team, represents the United States of America in international men 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful team in international प्रतियोगिता, जीतना medals in सब सत्रह ओलम्पिक tournaments it has entered, coming away with fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning दस्तों यहूद inducted to the naismith मेमोरियल बास्केट हॉल of कीर्ति as टीमों in August 2010—the 1960 team, which featured six Hall of Famers ( 4 players, 2 coaches ), and the 1992 `` Dream Team '', featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players, 3 coaches ).
The United States is currently ranked first in the fiba संसार Rankings.
Traditionally composed of amateur players, a 1989 rule change by fiba अनुमत यूएसए बास्केट to फ़ील्ड टीमों साथ professional players.
The first such team, known as the `` Dream Team '', won the gold medal at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in बार्सिलोना, स्पेन, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the introduction of professionals, the team was able to spark a second run of दबदबा बाद capturing only a bronze medal in 1988.
A team of पेशेवर खिलाड़ी competed at the 1994 FIBA World Championship, finishing first.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, and 2012 the USA again captured gold medals.
facing increased प्रतियोगिता, the USA failed to win a medal at the 2002 FIBA World Championship, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal, a record that represented more losses in a सिंगल साल than the देश 's ओलम्पिक टीमों था suffered in all previous Olympiads combined.
Determined to put an समाप्त to ये failures, USA Basketball initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan before losing विरूद्ध यूनानियों in the semi-finals, ending the competition with the bronze medal.
The USA won gold two सालो बाद, हालांकि, at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a dominant performance.
This कामयाबी थी followed up at the 2010 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, where despite fielding a roster featuring no players from the 2008 Olympic team, the USA did not lose a single game en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing gold once अधिक at the 2012 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक.
The Steelers Super कटोरी xl रिंग
Joe theismann 's सुपर कटोरी Ring ( right )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the National Football League given to the विजेता of the लीग 's सालाना संसार चैंपियनशिप game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the सुपर कटोरी रिंग offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
Image showing the छह सबसे आम speleothems with labels.
to दृश्य labels.
the डायन 's Finger in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, इससे σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` छोड़ने, trickling '' ) is a type of speleothem that rises from the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate.
This stalagmite formation occurs only अंतर्गत निश्चित ph शर्तें within the underground cavern.
The corresponding गठन on the ceiling of a cave is known as a stalactite.
If these formations grow together, the result is ज्ञात as a कालम.
The Hall of दिग्गज in the Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched, चूंकि the चट्टान buildup is formed by खनिज precipitating आउट of the जल समाधान onto the old surface ; skin oils can alter the surface where the mineral water will cling, thus affecting the growth of the formation.
Oils and dirt from human contact can also stain the गठन and change its color permanently.
समान structures can भी रूप in lava tubes, associated with some types of lavacicles, although the mechanism of formation is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on कंक्रीट ceilings और floors, हालांकि they form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is located in the cave of Cueva मार्टिन infierno, Cuba.
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran, लगभग इससे the प्राचीन नगर of bishapur, in the shapur गुफा on the fourth of five terraces stands the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
The statue, carved इससे one stalagmite, is nearly high.
How I Met अपना माँ is an अमरीकी sitcom that premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
The दिखाएँ थी निर्मित by Craig Thomas and Carter Bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers उसके बेटी ( lyndsy fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie ) to बताना उन्हें the स्टोरी of कैसा he met their mother.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 साथ टेड mosby ( जोश radnor ) as a सिंगल, 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from Wesleyan University, Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ), a law student, and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ), a kindergarten teacher, who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his अपना आत्मा mate, much to the disgust of उसके dost बार्नी Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
और यूँ, टेड begins his search for his perfect mate, and meets Robin Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ), whom he also befriends.
The 100th episode of How I Met अपना माँ aired on January 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the series was renewed for a ninth season.
On January 30, 2013, it was घोषित कि ऋतु 9 होगा be इसके final season.
Gringo (,, ) is a slang Spanish and Portuguese word used in ibero-america, to denote विदेशियों, प्रायः इससे the United States.
The term can be applied to someone who is actually a foreigner, or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) समाज और संस्कृति.
In Spanish it करता नहीं have a negative connotation.
Roger Axtell, a travel etiquette expert, notes that `` [ t ] he शब्द gringo is नहीं necessarily a bad word.
It is slang but is अपमानजनक तभी in इसके use and context. ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote foreign, non-native अध्यक्षों of स्पेनी.
The great white shark, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great white, white सूचक, श्वेत शार्क, or श्वेत मौत, is a प्रजाति of विशाल lamniform शार्क जिससे can be मिला in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans.
The great white shark is mainly known for its size, with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length, और in weight.
This shark reaches its maturity around 15 years of age और can have a जीवन स्पैन of over 30 years.
The great white shark is arguably the संसार 's largest known extant macropredatory fish, and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals.
It is also known to prey upon a किस्में of अन्य marine animals, including fish and seabirds.
It is the only ज्ञात surviving species of its genus Carcharodon, and is ranked first in having the most attacks on humans.
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable प्रजाति, जबकि it is शामिल in Appendix II of CITES.
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley और the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी by Steven Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
In reality, इंसानो हैं नहीं the पसन्दीदा prey of the great white shark.
The United States Armed शक्तियां हैं the सैन्य शक्तियां of the United States of America.
They consist of the Army, Navy, समुद्री corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard.
The U.S. has a strong tradition of civilian कंट्रोल of the military.
The President is the military 's overall head, and helps form military policy with the U.S. Department of Defense ( DoD ), a संघीय कार्यपालिका विभाग, एक्टिंग as the प्रिंसिपल अंग by जिससे सैन्य policy is carried out.
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense, जो is a civilian and Cabinet member.
The रक्षा सचिव is दूसरी in the सैन्य 's chain of command, just below the President, and serves as the principal assistant to the President in all DoD-related matters.
To coordinate military action with कूटनीति, the अध्यक्ष रै an सलाहकार नेशनल सुरक्षा Council headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the अध्यक्ष और सचिव of रक्षा हैं advised by a seven-member संयुक्त chiefs of Staff, which includes the head of each of the Defense Department 's service branches as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the अध्यक्ष of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The Commandant of the coast गार्ड is not a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions, under the Unified Combatant Commands, under the authority of the सचिव of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard.
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the विभाग of the नेवी by the अध्यक्ष or Congress during a time of war.
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health सेवा commissioned corps और the नेशनल oceanic और वायुमंडलीय Administration Commissioned Corps.
From the time of its inception, the सैन्य played a decisive role in the history of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a परिणाम of विजय in the पहला barbary युद्ध और the Second Barbary War.
Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military फ़ोर्स और नहीं जबतक the outbreak of संसार War II did a large standing army become officially established.
The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset, created the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act merged previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the विभाग of the नेवी into the नेशनल सैन्य स्थापना ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ), headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council.
The U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in शर्तें of number of personnel.
It draws its manpower from a large pool of paid volunteers ; हालांकि conscription रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in the पास्ट in various times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972.
As of 2013, the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its military forces, and appropriates लगभग $ 88.5 अरब to निधि विदेशी Contingency Operations.
put साथ, the u.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the world 's military expenditures.
The U.S. Armed शक्तियां as a पूरे possess विशाल quantities of उन्नत और शक्तिशाली equipment, along with widespread placement of forces around the world, giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection.
स्वतंत्रता of वाक is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting सूचना or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting जातीय द्वेष ), कापीराइट उल्लंघन, रहस्योद्घाटन of सूचना कि is वर्गीकृत or वरना.
The right to freedom of expression is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in छपाई, in the रूप of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these अधिकारों carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense, such as the अंग्रेजों जातिगत और धार्मिक Hatred Act 2006.
the बिग Bang Theory logo.
The Big बंग सिद्धान्त is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady.
Like the name of the series itself, with the एक्सेप्शन of the पहला episode— '' पायलट '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त always start with `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 episodes have aired.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त रै महरूम renewed for a seventh season.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced, ; October 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) थी the 34th अध्यक्ष of the United States from 1953 until 1961.
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during World War II and served as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility for planning and supervising the invasion of North Africa in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the कामयाब आक्रमण of फ़्रांस और जर्मनी in 1944–45 इससे the पश्चिमी Front.
In 1951, he became the पहला परम् commander of NATO.
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family in Kansas by अभिभावक साथ a मजबूत कार्य ethic और धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि.
As one of six sons, he was conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल जिससे instilled self-reliance.
He attended और ग्रैजुएट इससे वेस्ट पाइंट and later married and had two sons.
After World War II, Eisenhower served as Army Chief of Staff under अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन, तब assumed the post of President at Columbia University.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to काउंटर the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism, Korea and corruption ''.
He won by a भूस्खलन, defeating डेमोक्रेट Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition.
In the first year of his presidency, Eisenhower deposed the leader of Iran in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear खतरे to conclude the कोरियाई युद्ध साथ चीन.
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive नाभिकीय हथियार जबकि reducing the funding लिये conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino सिद्धान्त in उसके वर्णन of the threat प्रस्तुत by the स्प्रेड of communism.
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution, which enabled him to prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट आक्रामकता विरूद्ध Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan.
When the soviets शुभारम्भ sputnik in 1957, he था to play catch-up in the space race.
Eisenhower forced Israel, the UK, and France to समाप्त उनके आक्रमण of मिश्र दौरान the Suez Crisis of 1956.
In 1958, he भेजा 15,000 us सैनिकों to लेबनान to prevent the pro-Western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
Near the end of his term, his efforts to set up a summit meeting साथ the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the U-2 incident.
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege.
He otherwise left most political कार्यकलाप to उसके Vice President, Richard Nixon.
He was a moderate conservative who continued New Deal agencies और विस्तारित सोशल सुरक्षा.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among many invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space प्रशासन ( नासा ), ड्राइविंग शांतिपूर्ण डिस्कवरी in स्पेस ; the establishment of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act.
In social policy, he sent federal सैनिकों to छोटी चट्टान, अरकंसास, लिये the पहला समय since Reconstruction to enforce federal court orders to desegregate public schools.
He also signed civil rights विधान in 1957 और 1960 to protect the right to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years and made five appointments to the Supreme Court.
He was the first term-limited president in accordance साथ the 22nd amendment.
Eisenhower 's दो शर्तें यहूद शांतिपूर्ण ones for the most part and saw considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59.
Eisenhower is प्रायः क्रमित highly among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force एक is the आधिकारिक एयर ट्रैफ़िक कंट्रोल call sign of a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States.
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed, built, and used for the purpose of transporting the president.
The Presidential aircraft is a prominent symbol of the अमरीकी प्रेसिडेंसी और इसके power.
The idea of designating specific सैन्य वायुयान to हस्तांतरण the अध्यक्ष arose in 1943, when officials of the United States Army Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President.
A c-87 मुक्तिवादी एक्स्प्रेस थी reconfigured for use as a presidential transport ; however, it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record.
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for अध्यक्षीय उपयोग ; इस वायुयान, उतावले the पवित्र Cow, transported President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945, and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 घटना दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign.
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet, including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s, respectively ; since 1990, the presidential fleet has consisted of दो बोइंग vc-25as – specifically configured, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25 aircraft with three बदलना वायुयान शुरूआत in 2017.
A wedding anniversary is the anniversary of the date a wedding took प्लेस.
Traditional names exist for most of them : for instance, 50 years of marriage is called a `` golden wedding वर्षगांठ '' or बस a `` golden anniversary ''.
A scanner with duplexing स्वचालित Document Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one मुद्रक, फैक्स मशीने, photocopiers और scanners, an स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or adf is a विशेषता which takes several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the user to scan, and thereby copy, print, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page.
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a दस्तावेज़ फीडर.
The vast majority of fax machines have an ADF, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, some fax यंत्र स्वामी उपयोग the फैक्स यंत्र as a स्कैनर, faxing multi-page documents to themselves.
Document feeders are described by गति, in पृष्ठों प्रति मिनट or ppm, and capacity, usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) स्कैनिंग : a reversing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or radf scans एक पक्ष of a page, then flips it and scans the other side.
A duplexing स्वचालित document feeder or DADF scans both sides in one pass.
The लाभ of the dadf is तेज़ speed for two-sided originals.
RADFs and DADFs are rated in images per minute ( ipm ), the क्रमांक of पहलू they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational and educational complex located in डलास, टेक्सास ( USA ).
The complex is registered as a Dallas लैंडमार्क, नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क और is घर to nine museums, six performance facilities, a lagoon, and the largest Ferris wheel in North America.
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed for the Texas Centennial exposition in 1936 जिससे खींचा over छह लाख विज़िटर.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still survive and it is recognized as a significant example of आर्ट डेको architecture.
Fair Park has been designated a ग्रेट Place in America by the American Planning Association.
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is an independent, not-for-profit शैक्षणिक organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great स्थान in अमरीकी कार्यक्रम helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary character, quality, and planning.”
Being designated as a Great प्लेस in अमेरिका, मेला पार्क was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011.
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. जोसेफ ) is the third-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the tenth-largest in the U.S., and the county seat of Santa Clara County which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay.
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley, which is a major component of the greater San फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, a प्रदेश of 8.4 लाख people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest city in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
San Jose was founded on नवम्बर 29, 1777, as el pueblo de सैन जोस de guadalupe, the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California, which later became Alta California.
The city served as a खेती जातियाँ to support Spanish military installations at San Francisco and Monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, सैन जोस परोसा as its first capital.
After more than 150 सालो as a छोटी खेती city, San Jose and the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
San Jose experienced increased माँग लिये आवास इससे सैनिको and veterans returning from World War II.
San Jose then continued its aggressive expansion during the 1950s और 1960s by annexing more land area.
The rapid growth of the high-technology और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स उद्योग further accelerated the transition from an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San Jose 's location within the booming local technology उद्योग अर्जित the नगर इसके उपनाम, पूंजी of Silicon Valley.
San Jose now maintains global नगर औकात और is the largest नगर in the सैन फ्रांसिस्को Bay Area in terms of population, land area, and industrial development.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the population of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
As of April 2013, the estimated population of San जोस थी 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa Clara Valley, experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, with characteristics of intense urbanization समान to the लॉस एंजिल्स area of Southern California.
The city has taken definite कदम to avoid बनने `` L.A. North ''.
However, the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by measures such as population density and public transit सुरक्षा, निवेश, और ridership.
यूरोपीय depicted by Antwerp cartographer Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent चूंकि it थी पहला आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स to उपस्थित, with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to प्रागैतिहासिक Europe came during the paleolithic era.
The आगमन of कृषि around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic age.
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years, overlapping with metal-using cultures that धीरे स्प्रेड throughout the continent.
technological अग्रिम दौरान the प्रागैतिहासिक age tended to arrive from the Middle East, spreading gradually to the northwest.
Some of the best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय यहूद Minoan and Mycenaean, which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता began with the rise of the city-states of Ancient Greece.
Greek influence reached its zenith अंतर्गत the expansive साम्राज्य of Alexander the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western Europe were वर्चस्व by the La Tène culture, a precursor to the Celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally संस्थापित in 753 BC, would grow to become the Roman Republic in 509 BC and would succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization.
The events of the नियम of जूलियस Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire.
The empire was later divided by the emperor Diocletian into the पश्चिमी और पूर्वी empires.
During the बाद सालो of the रोमन साम्राज्य, the germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated attacks led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476, a date which traditionally marks the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages.
During the मध्य आयु, the Eastern Roman Empire survived, though modern historians refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire.
In Western Europe, Germanic peoples स्थानांतरित into स्थितियाँ of शक्ति in the remnants of the former Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own.
Of all of the Germanic peoples, the Franks would rise to a स्थिति of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, the frankish साम्राज्य reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; वेस्ट francia होता evolve into the किंगडम of France, while East Francia would evolve into the Holy Roman Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
The अंग्रेजों isles were the site of several large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the period of Roman Britain, and when the Romans abandoned the British isles दौरान the 400s, लहरें of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927.
During this period, the Kingdom of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद व्यवस्थित as well.
The Viking Age, a period of migrations of Scandinavian peoples, dominated the काल इससे the late 700s to the middle 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of Cnut the Great, a Danish leader who would become किंग of इंग्लैण्ड, डेनमार्क, और Norway.
The Normans, a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of normandy, होता have a significant प्रभाव on many parts of Europe, from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily.
Another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, would go on to found Kievan Rus ', an early state which थी a precursor लिये the आधुनिक देश of Russia.
As the viking आयु खींचा to a बंद, the काल ज्ञात as the Crusades, a series of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule, began.
Several Crusader राज्य यहूद संस्थापित in the eastern Mediterranean.
These were all short-lived.
The Crusaders would have a profound प्रभाव on many parts of Europe.
Their Sack of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
विलुप्त श्वान breeds is a compilation of dog breeds that have become extinct.
Wii Speak is a microphone accessory लिये Nintendo 's Wii video game console.
Connected to the कंसोल via usb, the यंत्र can be placed near the video display, allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire room.
The device features an LED to indicate जब the माइक्रोफोन is active.
Wii Speak थी घोषित at Nintendo 's 2008 E3 media briefing.
It was released separately and bundled साथ एनिमल क्रासिंग : नगर लोक on नवम्बर 16, 2008, in North America, and was released on December 5, 2008, in Europe.
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the अंतःस्थापित microphone on the Wii U 's GamePad controller.
निसान बुद्धिमान Key®
A smart कुंजी is an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम और प्राधिकरण system which is available as an option or standard in several cars.
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the name `` Keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 s-class following इसके डिज़ाइन पेटेंट दायर by daimler-benz on May 17, 1997.
Univisión ( ) is a spanish-language television network in the United States.
The network is primarily समर्पित लिये लैटिन अमरीकी परिवारों who reside in the United States.
It has the largest दर्शक of spanish-language टेलीविज़न viewers in the world according to Nielsen ratings.
Randy Falco, ( CEO as of जून 29, 2011 ) coo, रै been in charge of the company since the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010.
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks, and is often a strong fifth, outranking The CW, with some fourth-place weekly placings, and as of 2012, even first place rankings for individual कार्यक्रम over सब पाँच अंग्रेज़ी संजाल due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in नई यॉर्क, और रै इसके प्रमुख studios, उत्पादन सुविधाएं, and operations in Doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another television studio was announced, univision studios, to be built in Doral.
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country, साथ लोकल स्टेशन in over 50 बाज़ार साथ विशाल हिस्पैनिक and Latino populations and a national cable network feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station.
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows, and in major markets such as Los Angeles, New York, and Miami the लोकल newscasts carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( o & o ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's saban पूंजी समूह ( जो था previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ), TPG Capital, L.P., Providence Equity Partners, Madison Dearborn Partners, and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt.
the buyout बाएँ the कम्पनी साथ a debt level of twelve times its annual cash flow, which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years.
Artist 's धारणा of a protoplanetary disk
The formation and of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a छोटी भाग of a दानव आणविक cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a आदिग्रह डिस्क आउट of जिससे the ग्रह, moons, क्षुद्रग्रह, and other small Solar System bodies formed.
This widely accepted model, known as the nebular परिकल्पना, थी first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel Kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent विकास रै interwoven a किस्में of वैज्ञानिक disciplines including astronomy, physics, geology, and planetary science.
चूंकि the भोर of the स्पेस आयु in the 1950s और the डिस्कवरी of extrasolar planets in the 1990s, the model has been both challenged and refined to account for new observations.
The Solar System has विकसित considerably since its initial formation.
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their parent planets, while other moons are thought to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets.
Still others, as the धरती 's Moon, may be the result of giant collisions.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the उपस्थित दिन और have महरूम सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of the Solar System.
The स्थितियाँ of the planets often shifted, and planets have switched places.
This planetary migration is now thought to have been responsible for much of the सौर प्रणाली 's जल्दी एवोल्यूशन.
In roughly 5 billion years, the Sun will cool and expand outward many times its current diameter ( becoming a red giant ), before casting off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving पीछे a तारकीय remnant known as a white dwarf.
In the far दूर भविष्य, the गम्भीरता of passing stars will gradually reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets.
Some planets will be destroyed, अन्य ejected into अंतरतारकीय space.
Ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is likely कि the सूर्य होगा be बाएँ साथ none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title :, बाद as, और ) is a अनोखा लिखा by फ्रांज Kafka in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925.
One of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible authority, साथ the प्रकृति of उसके अपराधों नाज़िल to neither उसे nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's other novels, The Trial was never completed, although it does include a chapter जिससे brings the स्टोरी to an end.
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel, ऐसे as असमानताओं in समय in जोड to अन्य discontinuities in narration.
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his friend and साहित्यिक executor अधिकतम brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede.
The original manuscript is held at the Museum of आधुनिक साहित्य, marbach am neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the book was listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of the Century and as No. 2 of the बेहतरीन जर्मनी novels of the बीसवीं सदी.
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और अभिनेत्री.
She launched her career in 1994 with the song, `` Stay ( I Missed You ) ``, जिससे थी शामिल in the film Reality Bites.
She was the first artist to have a क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त States while not signed to a recording contract.
Her five studio CDs include her major label debut, the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up, the grammy-nominated, gold-selling पटाखा.
Loeb has also worked in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, voice-over work and children’s recordings.
Loeb has appeared in two टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, dweezil & लिसा, a साप्ताहिक culinary adventure for the Food Network and Number 1 Single, a reality show on the E !
संजाल in 2006 केन्द्रित on उसके quest for love, success, career, and family.
Her children 's music includes the albums Catch the Moon ( 2003 ), and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's किताब और एल्बम लिसा लोएब 's पगली sing-along : The Disappointing Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011.
In 2010 she संस्थापित the लिसा लोएब चश्मा संग्रहण, which is based on her own designs.
The Coat of arms of the राज्य of नई जर्सी includes:
A shield with three plows emblazoned, representative of नई जर्सी 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing knight 's helmet.
a घोड़ा 's head as the crest of the helmet.
The female figures स्वतंत्रता और ceres, प्रतिनिधि of the state 's motto ( see next item ).
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a `` liberty cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the पैर of the emblem contains the State Motto of New Jersey, `` Liberty and Prosperity '', and the year of statehood, 1776.
It was originally designed by Pierre यूजीन du simitiere in 1777 and was modified slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New Jersey and the ग्रेट मुहर of the State of New Jersey.
The Coat of बाहें contains a horse 's head.
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a shield referring to the State 's agriculture tradition, giving it the उपनाम `` गार्डन State ''.
the दो देवियाँ represent the State motto, `` Liberty and Prosperity ''.
Liberty is on the बाएँ.
She is holding a staff with a liberty cap on it, and the शब्द स्वतंत्रता underneath her.
The देवी on the right is Ceres, goddess of agriculture.
वो is पकड़कर a cornucopia with prosperity written below her.
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11, 1896, the date in which the Assembly officially approved the flag as the state emblem, the buff color is due indirectly to George Washington, who had ordered on October 2, 1779, that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his own uniform and those of other Continental सेनापतियों और उनके aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the पृष्ठभूमि रंग of the regiments ' राज्य ध्वज.
the मुहर is वर्णित in New Jersey statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the बीटल्स, लिखा by पॉल mccartney और John Lennon.
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day Tripper ``, the first time both sides of a single were so designated in an initial release.
Both songs were recorded दौरान the रबर आत्मा sessions.
The सोंग is an उदाहरण of lennon–mccartney collaboration at a depth that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963.
This song, `` A Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, You 're a Rich Man `` and `` I 've Got a Feeling ``, are among the notable exceptions.
As a medical diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a मनोरोग विकार in व्यक्तियों 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger, though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
An adolescent who is 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी जरूर be at तनिक पाँच सालो पुरानी than the prepubescent child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a range of परिभाषाएं, as found in psychiatry, psychology, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour '' in which there is a sexual preference for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी have तीव्र और तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards और कल्पनाओं about prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty.
In popular usage, pedophilia means any sexual interest in children or the act of child sexual abuse, often termed `` pedophilic बर्ताव ''.
For उदाहरण, the अमरीकी विरासत stedman 's Medical Dictionary states, `` Pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the यौन interest in and sexual contact with pubescent or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly प्रदर्शनी the विकार, some offenders do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents.
Additionally, not all pedophiles दरअसल commit such abuse.
pedophilia थी पहला formally पहचाना and named in the late 19th century.
A significant amount of शोध in the क्षेत्रफल रै taken place since the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, there are also women who exhibit the disorder, and शोधकर्ताओं assume उपलब्धियाँ estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia रै महरूम विकसित, लकिन वहीँ हैं therapies that can reduce the incidence of a person committing child sexual abuse.
In the United States, following Kansas v. hendricks, sex अपराधियों जो are diagnosed with certain mental disorders, particularly pedophilia, can be subject to indefinite civil commitment, under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the exact causes of pedophilia have not been conclusively स्थापित.
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated with several different neurological abnormalities, और प्रायः co-exists साथ अन्य व्यक्तित्व विकार and psychological pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement, a variety of typologies have been सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
Julio César Chávez ( born Julio César Chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer.
chávez is माना by अनेक people for their sport statistics the greatest fighter ever to come out of Mexico.
He is a six-time world champion in three weight divisions, and for several years he was considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the संसार.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, WBC Lightweight in 1988, WBC Light Welterweight in 1989, ibf लाइट welterweight in 1990, और wbc लाइट welterweight in 1994.
He holds records for most successful लगातार defenses of संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ), सबसे शीर्षक झगड़े ( 37 ), सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez also has the longest अपराजित streak in boxing history, 13 years.
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie Randall and had an 87 लड़ो जीत streak जबतक उसके `` चित्रण '' साथ Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding पंचिंग शक्ति, विनाशकारी body attack, remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking of his opponents.
He ranks # 24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम Boxers Of All Time.
On दिसम्बर 7, 2010, he was inducted in the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011.
He is the पिता of prospect ओमर chávez और former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez, Jr.
`` selektion `` on the Judenrampe, Auschwitz, May/June 1944.
To be sent to the right meant स्लेव मजदूर ; to the बाएँ, the gas chamber.
This image shows the आगमन of हंगेरियाई यहूदियों इससे carpatho-ruthenia, many of them from the Berehov ghetto.
The photographer was Ernst Hofmann or Bernhard Walter of the SS. Image courtesy of yad vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew :, HaShoah, `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish :, Churben or Hurban, from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ), was the द्रव्यमान हत्या or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War II, a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany, led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe before the holocaust, लगभग two-thirds were killed.
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust, as were लगभग two million Jewish women and three million Jewish men.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were प्रयुक्त to concentrate, hold, and kill Jews and other victims.
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the परिभाषा, और कुछ उपयोग the आम संज्ञा `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi mass murders, including those of Soviet prisoners of war, Polish and Soviet civilians, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on आंकड़े प्राप्त चूंकि the पतन of the सोवियत Union indicates some ten to eleven million civilians and prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
the persecution and genocide were carried out in stages.
Various laws to remove the यहूदियों इससे सिविल समाज, सबसे prominently the Nuremberg Laws, were enacted in Germany years before the outbreak of World War II.
विशेषज्ञता शिविरों यहूद स्थापित in which inmates were subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern Europe, specialized units called Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वियों in द्रव्यमान shootings.
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by भाड़ा ट्रैन to extermination camps where, if they survived the journey, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that led to the genocides, turning the तीसरा reich into कया एक holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ), with the mission of `` engaging youth to पहुँचें उनके fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development. ''
The name represents four निजी विकास areas of focus for the organization : head, heart, hands, and health.
The organization has over 6.5 million सदस्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य, इससे आयु five to twenty-one, in approximately 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, जिम्मेदारी और जीवन कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम और a धनात्मक youth development approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history, 4-h आज focuses on नागरिकता, स्वस्थ जीना, विज्ञान, engineering, and technology programs.
Today, 4-h और सम्बन्धित कार्यक्रम मौजूद in over अस्सी countries around the world ; the organization and administration varies from country to country.
Each of these programs operates independently, but cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, global education programs, and communications.
The 4-H motto is `` To make the best better '', जबकि इसके स्लोगन is `` सीख by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue square the same height as the white बैंड in the कैण्टन, जिससे bears a श्वेत five-pointed star in the center.
It थी अपनाया on 18 October 1817.
The Chilean flag is also known in स्पेनी as la estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; ब्लू symbolizes the आसमान और the प्रशांत समंदर, श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered andes, और रेड stands for the blood spilled to achieve independence.
According to the epic poem La Araucana, the colors were derived from those इससे the ध्वज flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War.
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the नवीं of जुलाई to commemorate the 77 सैनिको जो died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción.
Generation Y, also known as the Millennial Generation, is the जनसांख्यिकी दल following पीढी X.
There are no precise तिथियाँ लिये जब पीढी Y starts and ends.
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s, or इससे the early 1980s to the early 2000s.
The Torches of Nero, by henryk siemiradzki.
according to tacitus, नीरो targeted Christians as those responsible for the fire.
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an urban आग कि occurred beginning 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the Commonwealth of Virginia, is a U.S. state located in the South Atlantic region of the United राज्य.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` Mother of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the eight U.S. presidents born there.
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by the Blue Ridge kyu और the chesapeake खाड़ी, जिससे provide आवास for much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond ; and Virginia बीच is the most populous city.
Fairfax काउंटी is the सबसे populous political subdivision.
The wealthiest is Loudoun काउंटी.
The राष्ट्रमंडल 's population is over eight million.
The area 's इतिहास begins with several indigenous groups, including the Powhatan.
In 1607 the London Company स्थापित the Colony of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony.
Slave मजदूर और the जमीन acquired इससे विस्थापित Native American tribes each played a significant role in the colony 's early politics and plantation economy.
वर्जिनिया थी एक of the 13 colonies in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और joined the Confederacy in the American Civil War, during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction, both प्रमुख नेशनल parties are competitive in modern Virginia.
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest विधानमंडल in the Western Hemisphere.
The state government has महरूम repeatedly क्रमित सबसे प्रभावी by the Pew Center on the States.
It is unique in how it treats cities and counties equally, manages local सड़कें, और prohibits इसके राज्यपालों from serving consecutive terms.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; संघीय एजेंसियों in उत्तरी वर्जिनिया, सहित the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of Defense and CIA ; and military facilities in Hampton Roads, the site of the region 's main seaport.
वर्जिनिया 's पब्लिक स्कूलों and many colleges and universities have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a result, computer chips have become the राज्य 's leading export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker, codenamed Sundance ) is a फ्रीवेयर वीडियो editing software by Microsoft.
It is a भाग of खिड़कियाँ अनिवार्य तन्त्र suite and offers the ability to create and edit videos as well as to publish them on SkyDrive, Facebook, YouTube, and Flickr.
`` ब्रेंडा 's मिला a baby '' is the solo debut single by Tupac Shakur, and tenth track from his debut album, 2Pacalypse Now.
The song, which features R & B singer Dave Hollister, is about a twelve year-old girl named ब्रेंडा जो जीवनदान in a ghetto, has a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The song explores the समस्या of टीन गर्भावस्था और इसके effect on the young mothers and their families.
जैसे अनेक of shakur 's songs, `` Brenda 's Got a baby '' draws from the plight of the impoverished.
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general, Shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby 's father, the government, and society in general.
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and, क्युकी वो किया नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय the baby, threw it in a trash can.
The official logo of Pokémon for इसके अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज ; `` पोकीमॉन '' is छोटी लिये the original Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a media मताधिकार प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by जापानी video game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games विकसित by खेल freak, पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise.
पोकीमॉन गुण have चूंकि महरूम merchandised into anime, manga, trading cards, toys, books, and other media.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, and, cumulative sales of the video games ( including home console versions, such as the `` pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies.
In November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game related licensing of Pokémon, announced that it था सहमत नहीं to नवीनीकृत the पोकीमॉन प्रतिनिधित्व agreement.
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ), a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co., now oversees सब पोकीमॉन लाइसेंसिंग बाहर of Asia.
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the Japanese brand.
The term Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made दिखावे in पोकीमॉन मीडिया as of the रिलीज of the पांचवां पीढी शीर्षक Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y, 6 new Pokémon have been featured in promotions for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the एकवचन और बहुवचन, as is प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत प्रजाति नाम ; it is grammatically correct to say `` one Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the first edition of the publication दादा by ट्रिस्टन tzara ; ज्यूरिख, 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an art movement of the यूरोपीय avant-garde in the जल्दी 20th सदी.
Many claim Dada began in Zurich, स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1916, spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915.
To quote डोना budd 's the भाषा of आर्ट ज्ञान, Dada was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of World War I.
This अंतरराष्ट्रीय गति थी begun by a group of artist and poets associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada rejected reason और लॉजिक, prizing बकवास, irrationality and intuition.
The origin of the name Dada is unclear ; कुछ मानना कि it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent use of the words da, da, meaning yes, yes in the रोमानियाई भाषा.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a meeting of the समूह जब a पेपर चाकू stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada ', a French word for 'hobbyhorse '.
The movement primarily involved visual arts, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, art theory, theatre, and graphic design, और concentrated इसके anti-war राजनीती through a अस्वीकृति of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In addition to being anti-war, Dada was also anti- bourgeois and had राजनैतिक affinities साथ the कट्टरपंथी left.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, and publication of art/literary जर्नल्स ; passionate कवरेज of art, politics, and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, Hans Arp, Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Höch, Johannes Baader, Tristan Tzara, Francis Picabia, Richard Huelsenbeck, Georg Grosz, John Heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice Wood, Kurt Schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others.
The movement बहकावे बाद शैलियाँ जैसे the avant-garde and downtown music movements, and groups including surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art and Fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry, a starting पाइंट लिये प्रदर्शन आर्ट, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on pop art, a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism.
First trophic level.
The plants in this image, और the शैवाल और phytoplankton in the lake, are primary producers.
They take nutrients from the मृदा or the जल, और manufacture their own food by photosynthesis, using energy from the sun.
The trophic level of an सजीव is the स्थिति it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic derives from the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A food chain represents a उत्तराधिकार of जीवों that eat another organism and are, in turn, eaten themselves.
The क्रमांक of कदम an सजीव is from the start of the chain is a measure of its trophic level.
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, predators at level 3 and typically समाप्त साथ carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The path along the chain can form either a one-way प्रवाह, or a खाना `` web. ''
ecological समुदायों साथ higher biodiversity form more complex trophic paths.
Four of the most महत्वपूर्ण domesticated silk moths.
Top to नीचे : bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, Antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
From Meyers konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy cricket.
Silk is a प्राकृतिक protein fibre, some forms of which can be woven into textiles.
The protein fibre of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and produced by निश्चित कीट लार्वे to रूप cocoons.
The best-known प्रकार of रेशा is प्राप्त इससे the cocoons of the larvae of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre, which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at अलग कोण, यूँ producing अलग रंगों.
Silks are produced by several other कीट, लकिन generally only the silk of moth caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing.
There has been some research into other silks, which differ at the आणविक level.
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis, लकिन कुछ वयस्क कीट ऐसे as webspinners उपज silk, and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives.
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, and ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, beetles, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
अन्य प्रकार of सन्धिपाद produce silk, most notably various arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ).
Late Show with David Letterman is an American late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS.
The show debuted on August 30, 1993, and is produced by लेटरमैन 's production company, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
The show 's music director and band-leader of the हाउस बैंड, the सीबीएस Orchestra, is Paul Shaffer.
The सिर लेखक is Matt Roberts and the announcer is Alan Kalter.
Of the major U.S. late-night programs, Late Show बाँधने दूसरी in संचयी औसत दर्शक over समय and third in number of episodes over time.
The show leads other late night shows in ad revenue with $ 271 लाख in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the दिखाएँ airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific समय, लकिन is अंकित Monday through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m., and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second Thursday episode usually airs on शुक्रवार of कि week.
In 2002, Late Show with David Letterman was ranked No. 7 on TV Guide 's 50 महानतम tv shows of सब Time.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by then, Letterman will surpass Johnny कार्सन as the longest tenured late-night बात दिखाएँ मेजबान.
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television कार्यक्रम on ब्रावो, नियत in नारंगी काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
It was the first The Real housewives कार्यक्रम in the series.
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these housewives, as they shop, get प्लास्टिक सर्जरी, गपशप, लड़ो and live lavishly.
The financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast, has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses, evictions, mortgage defaults, foreclosures, और marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual, a group of individuals, or an organization.
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in defamation ), monitoring, making threats, identity theft, क्षति to आंकड़ा or उपकरण, the solicitation of नाबालिग लिये sex, or gathering information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable व्यक्ति, in कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना, होता regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress.
Cyberstalking is different from spatial or offline stalking in that it occurs through the उपयोग of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक communications technology such as the internet.
However, it sometimes लीड to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both are दण्ड offenses.
Cyberstalking shares important विशेषताएँ साथ offline stalking.
Many stalkers – online or off – are motivated by a ख्वाहिश to कंट्रोल उनके victims.
A cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन stranger or a person whom the target knows.
A cyberstalker may be बेनाम और may solicit भागीदारी of other people online who do not even know the target.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play under state anti-stalking laws, slander laws, and उत्पीड़न laws.
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order, probation, or even criminal penalties against the assailant, सहित jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another, or लिये पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन और their customers, clients and other external parties.
The overall स्टाइल of अक्षर होगा निर्भर on the relationship between the parties concerned.
There are many कारण to लिखें a business letter.
It could be to request direct information or action from another पार्टी, to अनुक्रम आपूर्तियाँ इससे a प्रदायक, to identify a mistake that was committed, to reply directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
Even today, the business letter is still very useful because it produces a स्थाई रिकार्ड, is गोपनीय, औपचारिक और delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a सौ प्रजाति of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish, inhabiting shallow streams, तालाबों, नदियाँ और झीलों, और कम commonly मिला जीना in brackish water.
Historically, they have been of major importance in artisan fishing in Africa and the Levant, and are of increasing महत्व in aquaculture.
tilapia can become समस्यापूर्ण हृदयरोग species in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama अपराधों फिल्मी अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters, Turner and Hooch respectively.
The film also stars Mare Winningham, क्रेग T. Nelson, and Reginald VelJohnson.
It was निर्देशित by रोजर spottiswoode ; the फिल्मी थी originally slated to be directed by Henry Winkler, but he was terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
It was co-written by Michael Blodgett from Beyond the Valley of the डॉल कीर्ति.
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly three months earlier ), Turner & Hooch became more popular and seemingly निष्प्रभ इसके वृहद कामयाबी, भी हालांकि K-9 had a very similar plot.
A pilot लिये a टर्नर & Hooch TV series was made and ran as a part of The Magical World of Disney.
This is a list of Israeli airports, sorted by स्थान.
Entrance to ovda विमानक्षेत्र
Terminal 3 at बेन गुरियन
Plane landing at be'er sheva ( Teyman )
eilat विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born German politician and the leader of the नाजी पार्टी ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ).
He was chancellor of जर्मनी इससे 1933 to 1945 and dictator of Nazi Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
हिटलर थी at the centre of Nazi Germany, World War II in Europe, and the Holocaust.
Hitler was a decorated veteran of संसार War I.
He joined the German Workers ' पार्टी ( precursor of the nsdap ) in 1919, and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921.
in 1923, he attempted a तख्तापलट d'état in Munich, known as the Beer Hall Putsch.
The failed coup resulted in Hitler 's कारावास, दौरान जिससे समय he लिखा his memoir, Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ).
After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the सन्धि of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933, he transformed the Weimar Republic into the तीसरा reich, a single-party तानाशाही आधारित on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim थी to स्थापित a नई अनुक्रम of absolute Nazi German hegemony in continental Europe.
To this end, his foreign and domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` जीना स्पेस '' ) लिये the germanic लोगों.
He directed the rearmament of Germany and the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht in September 1939, resulting in the outbreak of संसार War II in Europe.
Under Hitler 's rule, in 1941 German शक्तियां और उनके यूरोपीय allies occupied most of Europe and North Africa.
In 1943, जर्मनी था महरूम मजबूर onto the defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats.
In the final days of the war, during the Battle of Berlin in 1945, Hitler married his long-time संगी, एवा braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two days later, the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army, and their corpses यहूद burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is माना the प्रमुख कारण of the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
His antisemitic नीतियों और racially प्रेरित ideology resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5 million Jews, and millions of other people deemed racially inferior.
अंगूठा
A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority, or control on the अंतरजाल.
डोमेन names हैं formed by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS ).
Technically, any name पंजीकृत in the DNS is a domain name.
Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific नामकरण और संबोधित purposes.
In general, a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource, such as a निजी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the अंतरजाल, a server computer hosting a web site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet.
Domain names are organized in subordinate स्तर ( subdomains ) of the डीएनएस रूट डोमेन, which is nameless.
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level डोमेन ( tlds ), सहित the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), such as the prominent domains com, info, net and org, and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
नीचे these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks to the Internet, create other publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
The registration of these domain names is usually administered by domain नाम registrars जो बेचें उनके सेवाएं to the public.
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain name that is completely निर्दिष्ट in the पदानुक्रम of the डीएनएस, having no omitted parts.
Domain names हैं प्रायः लिखा in lowercase, although labels in the Domain Name System are case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the molecular सूत्र no3− और a आणविक द्रव्यमान of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2.
These nitrate esters are a specialized क्लास of explosives.
A wheat harvest in idaho
This photo इससे a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a tractor ploughing a crop field.
कृषि is a प्रमुख उद्योग in the United States and the country is a net exporter of food.
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007, वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख farms, covering an area of, an average of per farm.
Although agricultural activity occurs in सबसे राज्य, it is विशेषकर concentrated in the vast expanse of flat, arable land known as the Great Plains, which encompasses the central region of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, named after Tanzanian student Erasto Mpemba, is the assertion कि warmer जल can फ्रीज faster than colder water.
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect, there is no अनुबंध on exactly कया the effect is and under what circumstances it occurs.
वहीँ have महरूम रिपोर्ट्स of समान phenomena चूंकि ancient times, although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated.
The phenomenon seems contrary to ऊष्मागतिकी, लकिन a क्रमांक of possible explanations for the effect have been proposed.
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise definition of `` freezing '' and control a vast number of starting पैरामीटर्स in अनुक्रम to confirm or बताइये the effect.
The Siamese (, ) is एक of the पहला distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental cat.
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam ), where they are one of अनेक देशी breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became one of the सबसे लोकप्रिय breeds in Europe and North America.
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue, वॉशिंगटन, साथ 64 स्टोर्स in the puget ध्वनि प्रदेश of Washington state and in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.
In economics, the money supply or money stock, is the कुल राशि of मौद्रिक एसेट उपलब्धियाँ in an अर्थव्यवस्था at a specific time.
There are several ways to define `` money, '' but standard measures usually include currency in circulation and demand deposits ( depositors ' easily accessed एसेट on the किताबे of वित्तीय संस्थानों ).
Money सप्लाई आंकड़ा हैं अंकित और published, usually by the government or the central bank of the country.
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in money supply because of its effects on the price level, महंगाई, the एक्सचेंज रेट और the business cycle.
That संबंध between धन और कीमतें is historically associated with the quantity theory of money.
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation, at least for rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy.
That is, a country such as Zimbabwe which saw रैपिड increases in इसके धन सप्लाई भी saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
This is one reason for the reliance on monetary नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling inflation.
The nature of this causal chain is the विषय of contention.
Some heterodox economists argue that the धन सप्लाई is endogenous ( संकल्पित by the workings of the economy, not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy.
In addition, those अर्थशास्त्रियों देखकर the सेंट्रल बैंको 's कंट्रोल over the धन सप्लाई as feeble say that there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate.
First, in the aftermath of a recession, when many resources are underutilized, an increase in the money supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of inflation.
Second, if the velocity of money, i.e., the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply, changes, an increase in the money supply could have either no प्रभाव, an अतिरंजित प्रभाव, or an मनमौजी प्रभाव on the growth of nominal GDP.
Logo लिये IMAX.
Warren Theatre IMAX सिनेमा, wichita, Kansas, USA, 601 seats.
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm ऋणात्मक areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion picture film format and a set of cinema projection मानकों निर्मित by the Canadian company IMAX Corporation.
imax रै the क्षमता to रिकार्ड and display images of far greater size and resolution than conventional film systems.
Since 2002, some feature films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into imax स्वरूप लिये display in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX.
IMAX is the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त प्रणाली लिये special-venue film presentations.
, there are 697 IMAX theatres in 52 देशों.
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's टेलीविज़न show produced by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as खूब as अनेक pbs स्टेशन throughout the संयुक्त राज्य.
It was set in a department store, based on the फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the अभी defunct सिम्पसन 's in Toronto.
Many sequences लिये it were shot at the Queen Street West and Yonge Street store after hours.
Constitutionalism, in its most general meaning, is `` a complex of ideas, attitudes, and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle कि the प्राधिकार of सरकारी derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law ''.
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control for the protection of the interests and liberties of the citizenry, सहित those कि may be in the minority ``.
As described by राजनैतिक scientist and constitutional scholar David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze, cold-stimulus headache, or its दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` तंत्रिका पीड़ा of the sphenopalatine गंडिका `` ), is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ), and is believed to result from a nerve response causing रैपिड constriction और सूजन of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head.
The rate of intake for cold foods has been studied as a contributing फ़ैक्टर.
There are people who can not अनुभव `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms.
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since at least 31 January 1937, contained in a journal entry by Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 किताब we किया n't पूछो यूटोपिया : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The first published use of the term brain freeze, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, was on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स कविता लिखा by रॉबर्ट burns in 1788 और नियत to the धुन of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in many countries, especially in the English-speaking world ; its traditional use being to celebrate the प्रारंभ of the नई साल at the स्ट्रोक of midnight.
By extension, it is also sung at अंत्येष्टि, graduations and as a farewell or ending to other occasions.
The international Boy Scout youth movement, in many countries, uses it as a बंद to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be अनूदित into अंग्रेज़ी वस्तुतः as `` बूढ़ा long चूंकि '', or more idiomatically, `` long long ago '', `` days gone by '' or `` old times ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the पहला लकीर of the chorus, might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ), Allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), और जेम्स Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time...
`` in his retelling of fairy tales in the स्कॉट्स भाषा.
बेन schulz, खिलाड़ी of leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous अतिरिक्त अक्षर, is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित for a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG, World of Warcraft.
The character became popular due to a video of the खेल कि परिचालित around the Internet.
The phenomenon has since spread beyond the सीमाएँ of the gaming community into other online and mainstream media.
Oscar ग्रान्ट was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland, California, United States, in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning from San Francisco, BART Police officers detained Oscar Grant and several अन्य यात्री on the मंच at the fruitvale बार्ट Station.
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another officer were restraining Grant, who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest.
Officer Mehserle stood और, according to witnesses, said : `` Get back, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew उसके गन और शॉट ग्रान्ट एकबार in the back ; Mehserle appeared stunned, put his hands to his head and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During his court testimony, Mehserle said that Grant तब exclaimed, `` तुम शॉट me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning at Highland Hospital in Oakland.
The events were captured on multiple digital वीडियो and cell phone cameras.
The footage was disseminated to media outlets and to various websites, where it was watched millions of times.
The following days saw both peaceful and violent विरोध.
The shooting has been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, Alameda County prosecutors चार्ज mehserle साथ हत्या for the shooting.
He resigned उसके स्थिति and pleaded not guilty.
The trial began on June 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued कि mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol, intending to use his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles judge to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil rights attorney John Burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful death अर्जी विरूद्ध बार्ट on निमित्त of Grant 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter and not अपराधी of second-degree हत्या और voluntary manslaughter.
Initial protests against the ruling यहूद शांतिपूर्वक व्यवस्थित ; लूटने, आगजनी, विनाश of property, and small riots broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 people were eventually गिरफ्तार.
on शुक्रवार, जुलाई 9, 2010, the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights case against Mehserle ; the federal government can prosecute him independently for the same act under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
The Department of Justice will be working with the U.S. attorney 's दफ्तर in सैन फ्रांसिस्को and the FBI.
On November 5, 2010, mehserle थी sentenced to two years, minus time served.
He served his time in the Los Angeles County Jail, occupying a private कोशिका दूर from other prisoners.
He थी released on जून 13, 2011 and is now on parole.
Major representatives of the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण.
The Harlem Renaissance थी a cultural movement that spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` New Negro गति '', नामित बाद the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City, many French-speaking ब्लैक लेखक इससे अफ़्रीकी और caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
The हार्लेम Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s.
अनेक of इसके ideas lived on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '', as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, was placed between 1924 ( the year कि अवसर : a जर्नल of नीग्रो जीवन hosted a पार्टी लिये ब्लैक लेखक जहाँ अनेक श्वेत प्रकाशक यहूद in उपस्थिति ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ).
African States between 500 bce and 1500 CE
obelisk at टेम्पल of Luxor, Egypt.
c. 1200 BCE.
अफ़्रीकी नाईट of baguirmi in full padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of Homo sapiens in East अफ़्रीकी, continuing into the उपस्थित as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states.
Some early evidence of agriculture in Africa dates इससे 16,000 bce, और metallurgy from about 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt, and बाद in नुबिया, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa.
During the Middle Ages, islam स्प्रेड through the regions.
Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel, a major बीच of Muslim culture was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture, Mali साम्राज्य, ashanti साम्राज्य, किंगडम of mapungubwe, किंगडम of ज्या, किंगडम of saloum, किंगडम of baol, किंगडम of Zimbabwe, Kingdom of Kongo, Ancient Carthage, Numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th सदी, europeans और arabs took स्लेव इससे West, Central and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade.
European colonization of Africa विकसित rapidly in the हाथापाई लिये Africa of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
following struggles लिये स्वतंत्रता in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as खूब as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history has been challenging for researchers in the field of African studies because of the scarcity of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of oral history, ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान, पुरातत्व और आनुवंशिकी have been crucial.
Curry Foley थी the पहला खिलाड़ी in Major League Baseball history to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one बैटर hitting a सिंगल, a double, a triple, and a home run in the same game.
Collecting the हिट्स in कि अनुक्रम is known as a `` natural cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major लीग बेसबॉल ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 times since the first by Curry Foley in 1882.
the साईकिल is roughly as आम as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 offensive levels, the probability of an average MLB player hitting for a cycle against an average team in a game is लगभग 0.00590 % ; इस corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams.
In other baseball leagues, the cycle is हासिल less frequently.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( NPB ), the top-level बेसबॉल संगठन in Japan, have hit for the cycle, the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit for the cycle on the वही दिन एकबार in npb history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history.
One NPB player has also hit for the cycle in an npb all-star game.
No player has ever hit for the cycle in the एमएलबी all-star खेल or the postseason.
The प्रमुख स्लेव रूट in medieval Africa.
This article discusses प्रणालियों, history, and effects of slavery within Africa.
See Arab slave trade, Atlantic slave trade, maafa, और गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी for other discussions.
`` Slave हस्तांतरण in Africa ''.
europeans प्रायः did not enter the interior regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for अनेक सदियां, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent, the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began, many of the local slave प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव बाज़ार outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of गुलामी elsewhere in the संसार.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, सैन्य गुलामी, और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद सब practiced in विभिन्न parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions, गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again रूपांतरित साथ यूरोपीय colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity और आंकडे, logged-in उपयोक्ता, और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, and shut bas, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows Task Manager was introduced with खिड़कियाँ nt 4.0.
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application, जिससे था दूर fewer features.
The task list was capable of listing फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं and killing them, or creating a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, Restart, log बंद और स्विच User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a program known as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the कार्यक्रम currently running.
This file was चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action, single camera comedy -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय a तिकड़ी of teenagers जो लड़ो और कैप्चर राक्षस और other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood.
Created and executive produced by Max Burnett, Greg कूलिज और क्रिस मॉर्गन, the श्रेणी premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The second season premiered on June 25, 2011 and Nickelodeon cancelled the series मिडवे through it 's दूसरी season.
The remaining episodes of season 2 were aired on nicktoons मगर the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the कांगो ( drc ) is घर to a विशाल संभावित of प्राकृतिक संसाधन और खनिज माल, इसके untapped जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं अनुमानित to be लायक in excess of us $ 24 trillion, yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the time of its independence in 1960, drc थी the दूसरी सबसे industrialized देश in अफ़्रीकी बाद दक्षिण Africa ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive.
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and stares at a white object, a negative afterimage होगा appear ( in इस मामला, it will be cyan on magenta ).
This can also be achieved by the viewer closing his/her आँखें और tilting उनके सिर up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an ऑप्टिकल भ्रम कि refers to an चित्र continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original image has ceased.
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to float before one 's आँखें बाद looking into a लाइट सोर्स लिये a few seconds.
Closing the eye can help achieve a better भाव of the रंग in इसके अपना पहलू.
Afterimages come in two forms, negative ( inverted ) and positive ( retaining original color ).
The process behind positive afterimages is अनजान, though thought to be related to neural adaptation.
On the other hand, ऋणात्मक afterimages हैं a retinal phenomenon and are well understood.
Lost is an American serial drama television series that premiered on September 22, 2004 on the अमरीकी प्रसारण Company ( ABC ).
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof, based upon an असली पायलट स्क्रिप्ट titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber.
Six seasons of the show aired, in जोड to numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes.
ABC announced that Lost would end after six सीज़न, having produced a total of 121 episodes.
The series follows the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash on a यात्री जेट, oceanic उड़ान 815, उड़ती इससे सिडनी to लॉस एंजिल्स after it crashes on a tropical island in the South Pacific.
The series also includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they include the `` Others ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as खूब as a समूह of लोगों who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically सुविधाएँ कार्रवाई on the island as well as a secondary storyline from another point in a character 's life.
Season 6 सुविधाएँ a detailing of the lives of the survivors in a different reality, as if the flight had never crashed.
In the following सूची, the पद `` प्रदर्शित character ( s ) '' refers to the character or characters who are featured in the secondary storyline of each episode.
`` no.
in series '' refers to the episode 's number in the overall श्रेणी, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in each particular season.
`` U.S. viewers ( million ) '' refers to the number of Americans in millions who देखी the एपीसोड live.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced, the पिछला of जिससे aired on may 23, 2010.
All seasons are उपलब्धियाँ on dvd in regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in Regions A and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the मेहराब of the पैर collapses, साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of the पैर coming into पूरा or near-complete contact with the ground.
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three अध्ययन ( देखिए citations नीचे in सैन्य खण्ड ) of सैन्य रंगरूटों have shown no evidence of later increased injury, or foot problems, due to flat feet, in a population of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems.
however, these studies can not be used to judge possible future damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated with foot symptoms, or certain symptoms in other भाग of the देह ( ऐसे as the लेग or वापस ) possibly referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the generation born after the पश्चिमी post-world War II baby boom.
Demographers, historians और टीकाकारों उपयोग शुरूआत birth dates from the early 1960s to the early 1980s.
the पद थी popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated Culture.
Before that, it had been used for विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
Pressure ulcers, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, हैं स्थानीयकृत चोटों to the स्किन and/or underlying ऊतक प्रायः over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction.
Most commonly this will be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the hips, but other sites such as the elbows, knees, ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected.
The cause of दबाव छाले is दबाव लागू to soft tissue so that blood flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a cause ; shear pulls on blood vessels कि फीड the skin.
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in व्यक्तियों who are not moving about or are confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed कि अन्य कारकों can influence the सहिष्णुता of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development.
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), रोगों कि reduce blood flow to the skin, such as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin, such as paralysis or neuropathy.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the age of the person, चिकित्सा शर्तें ( ऐसे as arteriosclerosis, diabetes or infection ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented और treatable if मिला early, pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in critically ill patients, frail elders, wheelchair users ( especially where spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients.
Primary prevention is to redistribute दबाव by turning the रोगी regularly.
The लाभ of turning to avoid further sores is well documented since at least the 19th century.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, eating a balanced diet with adequate protein and keeping the skin free इससे एक्सपोज़र to urine and stool is very important.
The prevalence of दबाव छाले in हॉस्पिटल settings is high, but improvements are being made.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in कनाडा, there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however, heel छाले यहूद the सबसे common facility-acquired location in the survey.
Overboard is a 1987 American romantic कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was directed by Garry Marshall, produced by Roddy McDowell, and loosely inspired by the 1974 इतालवी फिल्मी swept Away.
In फेरे, overboard थी adapted into the 2006 South Korean television series, Couple or Trouble.
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin, located at the सिर of ग्रीन खाड़ी, a sub-basin of झील मिशिगन, at the mouth of the Fox River.
It has an elevation of above sea level and is located north of मिल्वौकी.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 104,057 at the 2010 census.
It is the third-largest नगर in the राज्य of Wisconsin, after Milwaukee and Madison.
It is also the third-largest नगर on the वेस्ट shore of Lake Michigan, after Chicago and Milwaukee.
Green Bay is home to the Green Bay Packers of the National Football लीग, बनाना it by दूर the smallest महानगर area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area, which covers Brown, Kewaunee, and Oconto Counties and had a combined population of 282,599 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
Green Bay is an industrial city with several meatpacking and paper plants, and a port on Green Bay, an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the खाड़ी of ग्रीन खाड़ी, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum, with exhibitions of art, history, और विज्ञान ; और the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin–green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone उत्पादित by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं in the anterior pituitary gland.
In females, an acute rise of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the कॉर्पस luteum.
In males, where LH had also been called interstitial cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ), it stimulates leydig कोशिका उत्पादन of testosterone.
it अधिनियमों synergistically with FSH.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez ( April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995 ), ज्ञात बस as Selena, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling Latin कलाकार of the दशक '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits.
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995, `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` no me queda Más ``.
She was called `` The महारानी of tejano म्यूज़िक `` और the Mexican equivalent of Madonna.
Selena released her first album, Selena y लॉस dinos, at the age of twelve.
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording contract साथ emi a few सालो बाद.
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s, विशेषकर in spanish-speaking देशों, और वो था begun recording in English as well.
सेलिना थी murdered at the age of 23 on March 31, 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar, the former president of her fan club.
On April 12, 1995, दो सप्ताह बाद उसके मौत, जार्ज W. Bush, governor of Texas at the time, declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
Warner Bros. produced Selena, a film आधारित on उसके जीवन अभिनीत Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's life was also the basis of the musical सेलिना Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena.
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized bronze statue ( mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस christi, टेक्सास ) and a Selena museum opened there.
वो has sold over 60 million albums worldwide, making her one of the best-selling artists of all time.
She is also the only female artist to have five albums in U.S. बिलबोर्ड 200 at the वही समय.
German stahlhelm from World War II
तमगा of the bolivian Army Colorados regiment, showing a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural, Stahlhelme ) is जर्मनी लिये `` steel helmet ''.
The Imperial German फौज began to बदलें the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers दोनो to a जेनेरिक स्टील हेल्मेट, और अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` आकार, was an instantly recognizable icon for military imagery and became a common element of military propaganda on both sides, just like the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक राष्ट्रवादी संगठन स्थापित at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the production and emission of लाइट by a जीना सजीव
chemiluminescence, is the emission of light ( luminescence ) without emission of heat
स्फुरदीप्ति, a specific type of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence, production of luminescence in a material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour, a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट दौरे by kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a हब नगर for Lufthansa and receives flights from Star Alliance carriers.
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large, medium, small, and non-hubs as एक of the faa विमानक्षेत्र श्रेणी जिससे हैं re-evaluated every year based on number of commercial passengers.
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an विमानक्षेत्र कि an एयरलाइन उपयोग as a ट्रांसफ़र point to get passengers to their intended destination.
It is भाग of a हब और spoke मॉडल, जहाँ travelers moving between airports not served by direct flights change planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the Point to Point model.
Many hubs of the airlines are also situated at airports in the शहरों of the respective head offices.
Some एयरलाइंस may उपयोग तभी a सिंगल hub, while other airlines use multiple hubs.
hubs हैं प्रयुक्त for both passenger flights as well as cargo flights.
Many एयरलाइंस भी उपयोग फ़ोकस शहरों, which function much the same as hubs.
एयरलाइंस may भी use secondary hubs, a non-technical term for large focus cities.
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either end as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - यात्री prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
Hollow lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on the हिल of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta.
Across the घाटी the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus are in evidence.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ), or Lacedaemon, was a prominent city-state in ancient Greece, situated on the बैंको of the eurotas नदी in laconia, in south-eastern पेलोपोनीज़.
it उभरा as a राजनैतिक एंटिटी around the 10th century BC, when the invading Dorians subjugated the local, non-Dorian population.
around 650 bc, it रोज़ to become the dominant military land-power in ancient Greece.
Given its military pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall नेता of the संयुक्त यूनानी शक्तियां during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 and 404 BC, Sparta was the प्रिंसिपल दुश्मन of एथेंस दौरान the peloponnesian War, from which it emerged victorious, though at great cost.
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of leuctra in 371 bc ended स्पार्टा 's prominent role in Greece.
However, it कायम its political independence until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC.
It then underwent a long काल of मनाही, especially in the Middle Ages, when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras.
Modern Sparta is the capital of the Greek regional unit of Laconia and a center for the प्रसंस्करण of goods ऐसे as citrus और olives.
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system and संविधान, जिससे completely केन्द्रित on सैन्य प्रशिक्षण and excellence.
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens, जो enjoyed पूरा अधिकारों ), mothakes ( non-spartan फ़्री मेन उठाया as Spartans ), Perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and education regimen, और spartan phalanges यहूद widely considered to be among the best in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably अधिक अधिकारों और समता to men than elsewhere in the classical world.
Sparta was the subject of fascination in its own day, as well as in the West following the revival of classical learning.
This love or admiration of Sparta is ज्ञात as laconism or Laconophilia.
Fantasy फ़ुटबॉल is an इंटरैक्टिव प्रतियोगिता in which users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams.
The players that an individual is able to manage are पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल players in the National Football League.
The different actions people हैं समर्थ to मेक हैं drafting, trading, adding or dropping players, and changing rosters.
Due to the growth of the Internet, Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity, particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN, Yahoo, CBS, and the NFL itself are able to रखना track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन, eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
Most leagues have a single week championship in Week 16 of the एनएफएल season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान, it may decline to 6 billion.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल number of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The world जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना supplies, and energy resources.
skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a तालिका of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical स्थिति.
In other positions, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold of any shape that is made by a बार निर्माता meeting standard conditions of manufacture, labeling, and record keeping.
Larger gold bars that are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds हैं पुकारा पिंडों.
Smaller बार may be manufactured by minting or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets.
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded among bullion डीलर is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar.
The kilobar, which is to say 1000 grams in mass, is the bar that is अधिक manageable और is used extensively for trading and investment.
The premium on these bars when traded is very कम over the स्पॉट मान of the सुनहरा making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, although some investors, particularly in यूरोपीय, prefer the brick shape.
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback in the National फ़ुटबॉल League, playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982, then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning, current New York दिग्गज starting क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग, और former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within political, आर्थिक, और सोशल प्रणालियों और संस्थानों.
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes सहित मीडिया अभियान, पब्लिक बोलना, commissioning and publishing research or polls or the filing of an amicus brief.
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct दृष्टिकोण is बना to विधायक on an समस्या जिससे plays a significant role in modern politics.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. and Canada are using social media to सुकर नागरिक सगाई और सामूहिक कार्रवाई.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de méxico ) is a लंबवत तिरंगा of ग्रीन, श्वेत, और रेड साथ the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence from Spain during the country 's War of Independence, और subsequent First Mexican Empire.
The current flag was adopted in 1968, but the overall डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1821, when the First National Flag was created.
the वर्तमान विधि of नेशनल symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984.
Red, श्वेत, और ग्रीन हैं the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico.
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for tenochtitlan ( अभी मैक्सिको नगर ), the center of their empire.
It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on कया थी originally a lake-island.
The form of the coat of बाहें थी सबसे recently revised in 1968.
A ribbon in the नेशनल रंगों is at the bottom of the coat of arms.
Throughout history, the flag has changed four times, as the design of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the ध्वज have महरूम परिवर्धित.
However, the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle, पकड़कर a serpent in इसके talon, is perched on शीर्ष of a prickly नाशपाती cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake.
The coat of बाहें is निकला इससे an एज़टेक लेजेंड कि उनके देवताओं told them to build a city where they spot an eagle on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now Mexico City.
The current national flag, the चौथी नेशनल ध्वज, is भी प्रयुक्त as the मैक्सिकन naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town, city, region, or country in order to बढ़ाएँ the क्रमांक of visitors.
It promotes the development and marketing of a destination, focusing on convention बिक्री, पर्यटन विपणन, and services.
Such organizations promote economic development of a गंतव्य by increasing विज़िट from tourists and business travelers, which generates overnight lodging for a destination, visits to restaurants, and shopping revenues.
Convention and visitor bureaus हैं the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण पर्यटन विपणन संगठन in उनके respective tourist destinations, as they are directly responsible for marketing the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors.
DMOs produce billions of dollars in सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और कर for their destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination विपणन संगठन हैं प्रायः पुकारा सफर, सम्मेलन, visitors, or tourism bureaux, welcome centers, information centers and more.
Regardless of the नाम, ये organizations offer many services to the traveling public.
the नीलगाय or wapiti ( cervus canadensis ) is एक of the largest प्रजाति of deer in the world, and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ), लकिन प्रमाण इससे a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species.
This animal should not be confused with the larger moose ( Alces alces ), to जिससे the नाम `` नीलगाय '' applies in Eurasia.
Apart from the moose, the only other member of the deer परिवार to प्रतिद्वंद्वी the नीलगाय in आकार is the दक्षिण एशियाई sambar ( rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in forest and forest-edge habitat, feeding on grasses, पौधे, पत्ते, and bark.
Although native to North America and eastern Asia, they have adapted well to countries where they have महरूम introduced, सहित अर्जेंटीना, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic species and ecosystems into which they have been introduced.
Male elk have विशाल antlers which are shed each year.
Males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut, सहित posturing, antler कुश्ती ( sparring ), और bugling, a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females.
Elk हैं susceptible to a क्रमांक of संक्रामक रोगों, some of which can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate संक्रामक रोगों from elk populations, largely through vaccination, have had mixed success.
Some संस्कृतियों आदर the elk as a spiritual force.
In parts of Asia, antlers and their मखमल हैं प्रयुक्त in traditional medicines.
Elk are hunted as a game species ; the meat is leaner and higher in protein than बीफ or मुर्गा.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a व्यापक निजी, coeducational शोध university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स डिग्री, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9, 1821 as the columbian कॉलेज in the District of Columbia.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera and a सदस्य of the family Felidae.
With some males exceeding in weight, it is the second-largest जीना बिल्ली after the tiger.
Wild lions currently मौजूद in sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी और in एशिया ( जहाँ an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी resides in Gir Forest National Park in India ) while other types of lions have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times.
Until the late pleistocene, परिचय 10,000 years ago, the lion was the most widespread large land mammal after humans.
They were found in most of Africa, across Eurasia from western Europe to India, and in the americas इससे the Yukon to Peru.
The lion is a vulnerable species, having देखी a major population decline of 30–50 % over the past two decades in its African range.
Lion populations are untenable outside designated reserves और नेशनल parks.
Although the cause of the decline is नहीं fully समझा, आवास घाटा और विरोध साथ humans are currently the greatest causes of concern.
Within Africa, the West अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is particularly endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild, while in captivity वे can सजीव longer than 20 सालो.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 years, as injuries sustained इससे continual लड़ साथ प्रतिद्वंद्वी males greatly reduce उनके longevity.
They typically inhabit सवाना and grassland, although they may take to bush and forest.
Lions are unusually सोशल compared to other cats.
A pride of lions consists of related females and offspring and a small number of adult males.
Groups of female lions typically हंट साथ, preying mostly on large ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone predators, हालांकि वे scavenge as opportunity allows.
While lions do नहीं typically hunt humans, some have been known to do so.
Sleeping mainly during the day, lions are primarily nocturnal, हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the male lion is easily recognised by its mane, and its फेस is एक of the सबसे widely recognised animal symbols in human culture.
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period, with carvings and paintings from the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं, through वस्तुतः सब प्राचीन and medieval cultures where they once occurred.
It has been extensively चित्रित in sculptures, in paintings, on national flags, and in contemporary films and literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य, and have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding कार्यक्रम लिये the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the इतिहास of वीडियो खेल, the सातवाँ पीढी of consoles is the पिछला generation, and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For home consoles, the seventh generation began on 22 नवम्बर 2005 साथ the रिलीज of एक्सबॉक्स 360 और जारी with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
Each new console introduced a नई प्रकार of breakthrough in technology.
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 offered खेल rendered natively at hd रिज़ॉल्यूशन, the प्लेस्टेशन 3 offered, in addition to FHD gaming, HD movie playback via a built-in 3D Blu-ray Disc player, and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining Nintendo in the motion market, सोनी released the प्लेस्टेशन Move in September 2010.
The प्लेस्टेशन मूव सुविधाएँ motion sensing gaming, similar to that of the Wii.
Microsoft भी joined Sony and Nintendo, with its Kinect.
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ), Kinect does not use any controllers of कोई sort और makes the उपयोक्ता the `` नियंत्रक. ''
Having sold 8 million units in its first 60 दिनों on the मार्केट, Kinect has claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers wired परिरक्षक as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद, all PlayStation 3 controllers can be used in wired and wireless configurations.
Starting with handheld consoles, the सातवाँ पीढी began on 21 नवम्बर 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी introduction of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '', alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles.
The निन्टेंडो ds ( nds ) सुविधाएँ a टच screen and built-in microphone, and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the revised version of the nds, the dsi, सुविधाएँ दो निर्मित in कैमरे, the ability to download games from the DSi store, and a web browser.
The PlayStation पोर्टेबल, or psp, released बाद the same year on 12 December 2004, followed a different pattern.
It became the first handheld video game console to use an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क स्वरूप, सार्वभौमिक Media Disc ( UMD ), as its primary storage media.
Sony also gave the psp मजबूत multi-media capability, connectivity with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs, and Internet connectivity.
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to the internet through the Nintendo wi-fi कनेक्शन और निन्टेंडो DS Browser, as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles, PlayStation Portable sales have consistently पिछड़ापन पीछे those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( often shortened to Sgt. Pepper ) is the आठवीं स्टुडियो एल्बम by अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान band the Beatles.
Released in जून 1967, the एल्बम included songs such as `` With a Little Help from My Friends ``, `` Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds ``, and `` A Day in the Life ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), Sgt. Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated balladry, psychedelic, music हॉल, और symphonic प्रभाव.
During the Sgt. Pepper sessions, the group improved upon the विशेषता of उनके म्यूज़िक 's उत्पादन while exploring experimental recording techniques.
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach included the उपयोग of an ऑर्केस्ट्रा.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth, was inspired by a sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a कोलाज of कुछ of उनके favourite celebrities.
Sgt. Pepper was a worldwide critical and वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200.
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style, the album was critically acclaimed upon रिलीज और जीती four Grammy Awards in 1968.
साथ an अनुमानित 32 लाख नक़ल sold, it is one of the world 's best selling albums.
Sgt. Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential और प्रसिद्ध चट्टान एल्बम कभी, और has been named the greatest album of all time by both All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is located beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती फिशर on दोनो दिमागी बांटती of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are शामिल in the स्तंभन of विज़ुअल यादें, processing sensory input, comprehending language, storing new memories, emotion, and deriving meaning.
The human lungs are the अंगों of respiration in humans.
इंसानो have two lungs, a right lung and a left lung.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly smaller consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` हृदय पायदान '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a total सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the वही area as one side of a tennis court.
furthermore, if सब of the capillaries कि घेर the alveoli were unwound and laid end to end, they would extend for about.
Each lung weighs, therefore बनाना the संपूर्ण अंग about.
इंसान फेफड़े
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( एक लिये प्रत्येक पक्ष ) at the level of T4.
This जंक्शन is भी known as the carina.
The conducting zone contains the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) हैं made up of airways.
The conducting zone has no गैस एक्सचेंज साथ the रक्त, और is reinforced with cartilage in order to hold open the airways.
The conducting zone warms the air to और humidifies the एयर.
It also cleanses the air by निकालना अणु via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways.
The फेफड़े हैं घिरी by the rib cage.
The respiratory zone is the साईट of गैस exchange with blood.
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the बीटा receptors कल्याणकारी bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, which अधिनियमों on the m-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle.
This action is related, although माना distinct from bronchoconstriction.
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, including carbon dioxide and oxygen, हैं भी शामिल in the विनियमन process.
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura, lining the inner wall of the thoracic पिंजरा, और the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar नलिकाएं और terminal bronchioles.
However, it often includes any form of lung tissue, भी सहित bronchioles, bronchi, blood vessels and lung interstitium.
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of टकीला मिश्रित साथ cointreau or समान नारंगी -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice, often served with salt on the glass rim.
It is the most common tequila-based कॉकटेल in the United States.
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ), blended with बर्फ ( frozen मार्गरिटा ), or without ice ( straight up ).
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from gevrey-chambertin, Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the Burgundy wine of the same name, which in turn is नामित बाद the बरगंडी प्रदेश of France.
the रंग बरगंडी is similar to other shades of dark red such as maroon.
When referring to the color, `` burgundy '' is usually not capitalized.
The first recorded use of `` burgundy '' as a color name in अंग्रेज़ी was in 1881.
Grave of an अनजान अंग्रेजों सिपाही, मारे in 1943 during the Battle of Leros.
Because his पहचान is unknown, he is missing in action.
Grave of an unknown American सिपाही in oise-aisne Cemetery.
Killed in 1917
Grave of an unknown paratrooper, मारे in the बैटल of arnhem, 1944.
Photographed in अप्रैल 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers मारे दौरान संसार युद्ध II, in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown इतालवी सैनिको मारे दौरान संसार युद्ध II, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
क़ब्रों of अनजान फ्रेंच soldiers killed during World War One.
Each concrete cross रै a मेटल plaque bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the gallipoli रणभूमि, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French soldiers who died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean ascaris मारे in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
लापता in कार्रवाई ( मिया ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing to armed services personnel who are reported missing during active service.
They may have been मारे, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or deserted.
If deceased, neither their remains nor grave can be positively पहचाना.
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk for service personnel for as long as वहीँ has been warfare.
Chamber of कॉमर्स भवन in Center.
This building is the original jail, निर्मित along with the Historic Courthouse.
Both sit on the कस्बा Square.
The Rio Theater in बीच
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in Center is located next to the शहर खण्ड.
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in बीच is एक of the oldest congregations in the community.
Center is a नगर in शेल्बी County, Texas, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,193 at the 2010 census.
It is the काउंटी seat of Shelby County.
It is named for its location near the center of Shelby County, not for its location in Texas as it is located निकट the louisiana किनारा.
Intense red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें with dilated pupil
The red-eye प्रभाव in छायाचित्र is the common appearance of red pupils in color photographs of eyes.
It occurs when using a photographic flash very close to the camera lens ( as साथ सबसे कॉम्पैक्ट cameras ), in ambient low light.
the प्रभाव appears in the eyes of humans and animals that have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally with a बहुत उज्जवल लाइट और somewhat distant from the actors, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience because it is reliant on the बहुत छोटी कोण between the followspot operator and the light.
The University of California, Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as uc सांता बारबरा or ucsb ) is a पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system.
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, from Santa Barbara and northwest of Los Angeles.
Tracing its जड़ें वापस to 1891 as an स्वतंत्र शिक्षक ' कॉलेज, UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy universities, which recognizes top पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in the United States.
The विश्वविद्यालयों is a व्यापक doctoral university and is organized into five colleges and schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees.
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate और 2,950 graduate students.
In 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National Universities '' and 10th among public universities by U.S. News & संसार रपट.
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher Education World University rankings और 34th विश्वव्यापी ( 6th विश्वव्यापी लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent $ 191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 फिस्कल साल, 97th-largest in the संयुक्त States.
UCSB houses twelve national research centers, including the प्रसिद्ध kavli संस्थान for Theoretical Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one Fields Medalist, 29 members of the National Academy of Sciences, 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering, and 31 members of the अमरीकी अकादमी of कला and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 मेजबान on the arpanet और थी निर्वाचित to the Association of American Universities in 1995.
The UC सांता बारबरा gauchos compete in the NCAA Division I Big West Conference.
The Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in मेन 's सॉकर and men 's water polo.
Saint Joseph with the Infant यीशु by guido reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of St. Joseph is in Western Christianity the प्रिंसिपल feast दिन of संत जोसेफ, जीवनसाथी of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
He is also the step-father of यीशु of नासरत /Jesus Christ.
It has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman Catholic Church ; Catholics who follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast.
Previous to 1962 it was मनाये as a feast of the रैंक of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the प्रांतों of the anglican नियाज़, और a feast or festival in the Lutheran Church.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as लिये कनाडा, व्यक्तियों नामित Joseph, Josephine, etc., for religious institutes, schools and parishes bearing his name, and for carpenters.
It is भी Father 's Day in some Catholic countries, mainly Spain, Portugal, and Italy.
कूच 19 थी समर्पित to संत जोसेफ in several Western calendars by the tenth century, and this custom was established in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the संपूर्ण रोमन रीति by उसके Apostolic Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal Conferences may, if they wish, ट्रांसफ़र it to a तिथि बाहर lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church, the latter शीर्षक having महरूम दिए to him by Pope Pius IX.
Originally celebrated on the तीसरा संडे after Easter with an octave, after Divino Afflatu of St. Pius X ( see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast was also retitled the solemnity of Saint Joseph.
This जश्न और इसके accompanying अष्टक was abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
It is still maintained by Catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals.
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss. Philip और जेम्स, may 1, था धुंधली इससे the memory of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century, that of Joseph the Worker was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of Ss. फिलिप and James, which had been celebrated on that date since the sixth century, was moved from its traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, which at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the Church calendar, was reduced to an optional Memorial, the न्यूनतम रैंक लिये a संत 's day.
The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates संत जोसेफ on the Sunday after Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन ``, a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन, खर्च a रिकार्ड सोलह weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings और धीरे traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at जिससे समय कैरी had separated from Mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ), वो suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of her recording अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख, which led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful काल, लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक चार्ट with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ Springs International Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold more than 200 million records विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the संसार 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
कैरी थी भी named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling मादा कलाकार in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the रिलीज of `` टच my देह `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी Awards, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed लिये her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is any member of the मधुमक्खी genus bombus, in the family Apidae.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध हालांकि वे also occur in South America.
They have been introduced to नई जीलैंड and the Australian state of Tasmania.
bumblebees हैं सोशल कीट कि हैं characterised by black and yellow body hairs, often in bands.
However, some species have orange or red on their लाशें, or may be entirely black.
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the hair ( long, branched setae ), पुकारा pile, कि कवर उनके संपूर्ण देह, making them appear and feel fuzzy.
They are best distinguished from similarly large, fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg, which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare, but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to हस्तांतरण पराग ( in समान मधुमक्खियों, the हिन्द लेग is completely बालदार, और पराग दाने हैं wedged into the hairs for transport ).
Like their रिश्तेदारों the मधु मधुमक्खियों, bumblebees feed on nectar and gather pollen to feed their young.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a बर्गर King in Eagle, Colorado.
In the United States, खोलें carry is आशुलिपि terminology for `` openly carrying a firearm in public '', as distinguished from concealed carry, where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners openly carry firearms while they go about their daily कारोबार, रै देखी an बढ़ाएँ in the U.S. in recent years.
This has been marked by a number of organized events intended to बढ़ाएँ the दृश्यता of खोलें carry and public awareness about the practice.
Proponents of open carry point to history and आंकडे, noting कि अपराधियों प्रायः conceal their weapons.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants of the फ़्री राज्य प्रोजेक्ट, खोलें carry रै देखी a पुनरुद्धार in recent years, but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend.
The gun rights community has been मिश्रित in its response.
एलन gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, while special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org, and certain national groups such as the Gun Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the ब्रैडी अभियान and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in France.
France produces around तीन quarters of its electricity by nuclear power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following जापानी 's फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय disaster.
Currently, 68 reactors are under construction in 15 देशों.
Nuclear power स्टेशन operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany और स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, डेनमार्क, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, इटली, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed रंग फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फिल्मी in a स्वरूप उपयुक्त लिये उपयोग in a गति चित्र camera, and to finished motion picture film, ready for use in a projector, which bears images in color.
The first color cinematography was by अर्थात् of योगात्मक रंग प्रणालियों such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A simplified additive system was विकसित by जार्ज Albert Smith and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and project two or more component images through अलग रंग filters.
Still from footage recorded by Edward टर्नर in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks, duplicating interpositive और internegative स्टॉक्स ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( positive prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Fuji 's products are compatible साथ ecn-2 और ecp-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, और अभिनेत्री.
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, which featured the hit song `` Foolish ``, and sold over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके पहला सप्ताह of रिलीज throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a Soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने सप्ताह sales for a new female artist, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same week, she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '', and `` कया 's luv ? ``
( साथ मोटे Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always on Time ``, on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट in the वही सप्ताह, होने the पहला स्त्री to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन R & B album.
As of अप्रैल 1st 2013, ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records worldwide.
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the third शीर्ष नई r & b कलाकार पीछे Alicia Keys and Beyoncé.
She also ended the decade at number 38 on the शीर्ष कलाकार of the Decade list.
She is currently on the सूची of the बीस बेहतरीन Selling Music Singles Since 1990 for her single Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date.
Ashanti has an estimated net worth of $ 40 million dollars [ usd ].
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It मजेदार ( हत्या रिमिक्स ) ``, जिससे पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on बिलबोर्ड Hot 100, which was also in the top 10 chart at the same time as `` Foolish '', `` Always on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ), and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ).
Later that year, she was acclaimed as the `` Princess of hip-hop & r & b '' by उसके लेबल और capped बंद उसके कामयाब debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards.
Within seven years of Ashanti 's career, she रै scored 16 शीर्ष 40 hits on the Hot 100.
Ashanti has endorsed numerous उत्पाद सहित Gap, Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, Mary J. Blige, Ella Fitzgerald, Smokey रॉबिन्सन, डोना गर्मियाँ, और ब्लू जादू as उसके musical प्रभाव.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics alike, ashanti रै written/co-written the bulk of all her music.
She is currently working on her अपना प्रकाशन कम्पनी हकदार Written Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio album entitled The Declaration on June 3, 2008 and is फिलहाल in the स्टुडियो working on her fifth.
She also performed the दान धुन `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers for the `` Stand Up to Cancer '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research.
The United States Army एयर शक्तियां ( usaaf or aaf ) थी the military aviation arm of the United States of America during and immediately after World War II, and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United States Army, which in 1942 was divided functionally by executive अनुक्रम into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground Forces, the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ), and the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding general who reported directly to the मुख्य of स्टाफ of the United States Army.
The AAF administered all parts of सैन्य विमानन formerly वितरित among the Army Air Corps, General Headquarters Air Force, and ground forces corps area commanders, and thus became the first air organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the AAF was वस्तुतः autonomous अंदर the Army.
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 लाख मेन और महिलाओं in सेवा और nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in December 1943.
by ve दिन it था 1.25 million men stationed overseas and operated from more than 1,600 airfields worldwide.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a greater autonomy in which to expand अधिक efficiently, और to provide a ढांचा लिये the अतिरिक्त command echelons required by a vastly increased force.
Although other nations already had separate air forces स्वतंत्र of the फौज or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों royal एयर Force and the German Luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its expansion and conduct of the war, the aaf became अधिक than बस an भुजा of the greater organization.
By the end of संसार युद्ध ii the AAF had become virtually an independent service.
By regulation and executive order, the AAF was a subordinate agency of the युद्ध विभाग tasked तभी साथ आयोजन, प्रशिक्षण, और equipping कॉम्बैट units, limited in responsibility to the continental United States, as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces.
In reality, Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war in every part of the world, determining air policy and issuing orders without transmitting उन्हें through the मुख्य of स्टाफ.
This `` कंट्रास्ट between सिद्धान्त and fact is... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF. ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law that allows for the full or partial disclosure of previously unreleased सूचना और दस्तावेज़ नियंत्रित by the United States government.
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure, outlines mandatory disclosure procedures और अनुदान nine exemptions to the statute.
It was originally signed into विधि by अध्यक्ष lyndon B. जॉनसन, despite his misgivings, on July 4, 1966 as and went into effect the following year.
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should not be confused with the different and varying Freedom of सूचना अधिनियमों passed by the individual states.
Many of those state acts may be समान but not identical to the federal act.
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and political संघ of 27 सदस्य राज्य कि are located primarily in Europe.
The EU operates through a प्रणाली of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों और intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states.
Institutions of the EU शामिल the यूरोपीय आयोग, the परिषद of the यूरोपीय संघ, the यूरोपीय परिषद, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors, and the European Parliament.
The European Parliament is elected प्रत्येक पाँच सालो by eu नागरिकों.
The EU 's de facto capital is Brussels.
The EU traces इसके origins इससे the यूरोपीय कोयले और Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ), formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
In the intervening years the community और इसके successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states and in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit.
The Maastricht Treaty established the European संघ अंतर्गत इसके वर्तमान name in 1993.
The latest प्रमुख amendment to the संवैधानिक basis of the EU, the Treaty of Lisbon, came into force in 2009.
The EU has developed a single market through a standardised system of laws that लागू in सब सदस्य राज्य.
Within the Schengen Area ( which शामिल 22 eu and 4 non-EU states ) passport controls have been abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, services, and capital, enact legislation in justice and home affairs, and maintain common policies on व्यापार, कृषि, fisheries and regional development.
A monetary union, the eurozone, थी स्थापित in 1999 और is composed of 17 member states.
Through the Common Foreign and Security नीति the eu रै विकसित a भूमिका in external relations and defence.
स्थाई राजनयिक मिशन have been established around the world.
The EU is represented at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the WTO, the G8 and the G-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million निवासियों, or 7.3 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी, the eu, in 2012, उत्पन्न a नाममात्र सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion US dollars, representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity, and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world.
The EU was the recipient of the 2012 नोबेल Peace Prize.
The Wales नेशनल रग्बी लीग टोली represent Wales in international rugby league football matches.
Currently the team is seventh in the rlif संसार rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League, but an स्वतंत्र देह, Wales Rugby League, now runs the team from Cardiff.
A कुल of तीन Welsh players have been entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame.
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting teams, Wales strip रै महरूम primarily red for many years, including now.
however in उनके पिछला संसार कप अभियान in 2000 वे did wear a shirt featuring the Welsh flag, adding a touch of green and white.
The team is ज्ञात as `` the ड्रेगन '' और so the teams logo on the shirt is a red dragon.
The team date back to 1907, making them the third oldest नेशनल पक्ष after England and New Zealand.
And it was a touring New Zealand पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला played against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly निभाई इंग्लैण्ड, चूंकि 1935 फ़्रांस, as खूब as welcomed the touring Australia and New Zealand teams, although they rarely toured themselves, not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975.
For twenty-six years Wales competed विरूद्ध their two biggest rivals, England and France, in the European Nations Cup, winning the trophy four times.
Wales have भी competed in the संसार कप on three occasions, the first time being in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to तिथि, surprisingly बनाना the semi-finals on both occasions before being beaten by England and Australia respectively.
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup, being the second highest ranked side not to do so, having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches.
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the नई सिर कोच और नियुक्त Lee Briers as captain, having played for Wales since 1998.
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides under पूर्व खिलाड़ी iestyn हैरिस who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup successes, which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the फलन of the myocardium ( the दिल मांसपेशी ) लिये कोई reason, usually leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of the legs ).
People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of dangerous forms of irregular दिल beat and sudden cardiac death.
The most common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an अंग्रेज़ी शब्द कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the word is obscure.
It is प्रायः माना to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There are many common phrases जिससे मेक उपयोग of the word, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the U.S. Department of Transportation 's परिभाषा of a यात्री गाडी, to mean a car or truck, used for passengers, excluding buses and trains.
The United States is home to the largest यात्री गाडी मार्केट of any country in the world.
Overall, there were an estimated 254.4 million registered passenger vehicles in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 बिन्दु study.
This number, along with the average age of vehicles, has increased steadily since 1960, indicating a growing number of vehicles per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to soon exceed the United States ; by the end of 2012, वहीँ यहूद over 240 लाख cars on the road in China.
The United राज्य is भी घर to तीन विशाल vehicle manufacturers : General Motors, Ford Motor Company and Chrysler, which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top three ; but is number five, behind Toyota and Honda.
The motor car has clearly become an integral part of American जीवन, साथ वाहनों outnumbering licensed drivers.
Clinical laboratory in a Hospital setting प्रर्दशित several automated analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical specimens in order to get information परिचय the स्वास्थ्य of a रोगी as pertaining to the निदान, treatment, and prevention of disease.
In poker, players construct hands of five cards according to predetermined rules, which vary according to जिससे रूपांतर of poker is being played.
These hands are compared using a hand ranking system that is standard across all variants of poker, the player with the highest-ranking हाथ जीतना कि particular deal in most variants of poker.
In some variants, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
These hand rankings are also प्रयुक्त in कुछ अन्य card games, and in poker dice.
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by including multiple cards of the same card rank, by all five cards being from the same suit, or by all पाँच ताश होने of consecutive rank.
The relative रैंकिंग of the विभिन्न हाथ श्रेणी is based on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23, 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, and dulcimer खिलाड़ी, और songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances, Hornsby draws frequently from classical, jazz, bluegrass, folk, Motown, gospel, rock, blues, and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards, including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce hornsby और the दायरा, the बेहतरीन ब्लूग्रास रिकॉर्डिंग ग्रैमी in 1990, and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby has also achieved recognition for his solo albums and performances, his touring band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers, his bluegrass प्रोजेक्ट with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated साथ आभारी मुर्दे और थी a सदस्य of the band from September 1990 to March 1992, playing at over one hundred shows during that period.
Sugarcane plantation in ग्रामीण क्यूबा
Agriculture in Cuba has played an important part in the अर्थव्यवस्था for several hundred years.
Agriculture contributes less than 10 percent to the सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( GDP ), but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population.
About 30 percent of the country 's land is प्रयुक्त लिये crop cultivation.
the अकुशल agricultural उद्योग in Cuba has led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
Cuba now imports about 80 % of the खाना it rations to the public.
The rationing program accounts for about a third of the food उर्जा the औसत Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, Cuba is dependent on imports for only 16 % of इसके food.
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of The Big Game ) is an अमरीकी multi-jurisdictional $ 1 लॉटरी खेल.
The first ( The Big Game ) Mega Millions drawing was in 2002 ( see below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 बराबर वार्षिक किश्तों ( जबतक the नकदी विकल्प is चुनी ) ; usually, the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no jackpot winner for the $ 12,000,000 December 18, 2012 आरेखण, the जैकपॉट remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21.
( See below for information on how the game 's जैकपॉट is वित्तपोषित. )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries, the जैकपॉट is advertised as a nominal value of annual installments.
A cash value option ( the usual choice ), when chosen by a जैकपॉट winner ( see below ), pays the approximate present value of the installments.
Mega लाखो फिलहाल उपयोग a 5/56 ( श्वेत balls ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers.
Each game लागत $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( कैलिफ़ोर्निया is the एक्सेप्शन ), वहीँ is an विकल्प, पुकारा Megaplier ( such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
the megaplier थी बना उपलब्धियाँ to सब Mega Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays और Fridays, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings are held at wsb-tv in अटलांटा, Georgia.
supervised by the जॉर्जिया लॉटरी.
The largest जैकपॉट in आचमन लाखो, as खूब as in अमरीकी लॉटरी इतिहास, was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30, 2012 drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and Maryland.
All three tickets had been claimed as of April 18, with each set of winners चुनना the cash option.
is a Japanese manga श्रेणी निर्मित by लेखक Tsugumi Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata.
The प्रमुख अक्षर is लाइट yagami, a ऊँची स्कूल छात्र जो discovers a supernatural notebook, the `` Death Note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note grants its user the ability to kill anyone whose name and face they जान, by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their face.
The series centers around लाइट 's attempt to बनाएँ और नियम a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the notebook, and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop him.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 अध्याय by Shueisha in the Japanese manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006.
The series was also published in tankōbon format in जापानी starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes.
The दुश्मनी श्रेणी aired in Japan from October 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 एपीसोड, the anime was developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki.
A light novel based on the series, written by Nisio Isin, थी released in जापानी.
Additionally, various video games have been published by कोनामी लिये निन्टेंडो DS.
The series was adapted into live-action films released in जापानी on जून 17, 2006, नवम्बर 3, 2006, and February 2, 2008.
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in उत्तर अमेरिका और रै published all the twelve volumes from the series, a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's guide '', as well as the light novels.
The एपीसोड इससे the दुश्मनी first appeared in North America as downloadable by IGN.
Viz later licensed the दुश्मनी श्रेणी और it aired on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon Network in the United States.
The live-action films briefly played in certain North American थिएटर चूंकि 2008.
However, none of the video games have यूँ दूर महरूम published in North America or Europe.
Death Note is one of Weekly Shōnen jumps best-selling manga श्रेणी of all time, with sales over 26.5 million copies.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` सब hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to अनेक विद्वानों, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
अन्य विद्वानों maintain कि it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween क्रियाएँ शामिल trick-or-treating ( भी ज्ञात as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
New York City taxicabs during Midtown फटाफट घंटा in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City, साथ उनके distinctive yellow paint, are a widely recognized icon of the city.
Taxicabs are operated by private companies and licensed by the नई यॉर्क City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles, सहित `` black cars '', commuter vans and ambulettes.
`` Medallion taxis, '' the familiar yellow cabs, are the only vehicles in the नगर permitted to चुनें up यात्री in जवाब to a street hail.
schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of भाग of leaf, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( फ्लोएम is the अन्य ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood, हालांकि it is मिला throughout the संयंत्र.
Its basic function is to transport water, but it also transports कुछ nutrients through the संयंत्र.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating for the right to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage also known as स्त्री suffrage is the सही of महिलाओं to vote and to run for office.
सीमित मतदान अधिकारों were gained by women in Sweden, Finland and some western U.S. states in the late 19th century.
International organizations were formed to coordinate प्रयत्न, especially the International Council of Women ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New Zealand, then a self-governing British colony, granted adult women the right to vote और the self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश of दक्षिण ऑस्ट्रेलिया किया the वही in 1895, but also permitted women to run for office.
Australia federated in 1901, and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902, though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal महिलाओं मतदान in नेशनल चुनावों यहूद not completely removed until 1962.
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland, then part of the Russian Empire, which also produced the world 's पहला मादा सदस्यों of पार्लियामेंट in the 1907 parliamentary elections.
Norway followed, granting full women 's suffrage in 1913.
In most Western countries, women 's suffrage came after World I War I I, with some important late adopters होने फ़्रांस in 1944 और Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage has generally been recognized after political अभियान to obtain it यहूद waged.
In many countries it was granted before universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the सम्मेलन on the विलोपन of सब फ़ॉर्म of पक्षपात Against Women, adopted by the United Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a गोथिक सस्पेंस novel, the author 's first published book.
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity.Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • denomination : the संगठन रिपोर्ट्स विश्वव्यापी सदस्यता of over 7.78 लाख adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद, सम्मेलन उपस्थिति of over 12 लाख, and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million.
They are निर्देशित by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses, a group of elders in Brooklyn, New York, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' beliefs are based on their interpretations of the Bible and they prefer to उपयोग उनके अपना अनुवाद, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe that the destruction of the present world system at Armageddon is imminent, and that the स्थापना of परमेश्वर 's किंगडम on earth is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind.
The समूह उभरा इससे the बाइबल Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, was adopted in 1931 to distinguish themselves from other Bible Student groups and symbolize a ब्रेक साथ the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door उपदेश, distributing साहित्य such as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing military service and रक्त transfusions.
वे consider उपयोग of the name Jehovah vital for proper worship.
They reject Trinitarianism, inherent अमरत्व of the आत्मा, और hellfire, which they consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, Easter, birthdays, or other holidays and customs वे consider to have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity.
Adherents commonly refer to उनके देह of मान्यताओं as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider secular society to be morally corrupt and under the influence of Satan, and most limit their social बातचीत साथ non-witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary actions include disfellowshipping, their term लिये औपचारिक expulsion और shunning.
Baptized individuals जो formally leave are considered disassociated and are also shunned.
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may आखिरकार be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The religion 's position regarding ईमानदार आपत्ति to सैन्य सेवा और refusal to salute national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments.
Consequently, Jehovah 's Witnesses have been persecuted और उनके क्रियाएँ are banned or restricted in some countries.
Persistent विधिक चुनौतियां by Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced legislation related to civil rights in several countries.
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 franco-italian रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
It stars मार्लोन ब्रैंडो, Maria Schneider, and Jean-Pierre Léaud.
The film 's कच्चा portrayal of यौन violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy and drew various levels of government censorship.
The mpaa दिया the film an X rating upon release in the United States.
After revisions were बना to the MPAA ratings code, it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997.
mgm released a censored R-rated cut in 1981.
The film has its NC-17 rating for `` some सुस्पष्ट यौन सामग्री. ''
Windows XP is an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली उत्पादित by microsoft लिये उपयोग on निजी कंप्यूटर, including home and business desktops, laptops and media centers.
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24, 2001, it is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय version of Windows, based on installed user base.
The name `` XP '' is short लिये `` अनुभव '', highlighting the enhanced user experience.
Windows XP, the successor to खिड़कियाँ 2000 और Windows ME, was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel.
Windows XP was released worldwide for retail sale on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, और over 400 लाख नक़ल were in use in January 2006.
It was succeeded by Windows विस्टा in जनवरी 2007.
Direct OEM and retail बिक्री of खिड़कियाँ XP ceased on June 30, 2008.
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through उनके प्रणाली बिल्डर ( छोटी OEMs who sell assembled computers ) program until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed that विस्तारित support लिये खिड़कियाँ xp और दफ्तर 2003 होता समाप्त on अप्रैल 8, 2014 and suggested that administrators begin preparing to migrate to a newer OS.
The NT -based versions of Windows, which are programmed in C, C++, and assembly, are known for their improved stability and दक्षता over the 9x संस्करण of microsoft खिड़कियाँ.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface, a change microsoft प्रचारित as अधिक user-friendly than पिछला संस्करण of Windows.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the past versions of Windows, improved side-by-side assembly technology in Windows XP allows side-by-side installation, registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally साझा software components in full isolation.
It is also the first version of Windows to use product activation to combat illegal copying.
During Windows XP 's development, the प्रोजेक्ट थी codenamed `` whistler '', बाद whistler, अंग्रेजों Columbia, as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to वेब analytics आंकड़ा उत्पन्न by जाल Applications, Windows XP was the most widely used operating system until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, खिड़कियाँ xp मार्केट share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month since at least November 2007, the first month for which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications.
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an अर्जेंटाइन टैंगो साथ म्यूज़िक and lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively.
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a सिर '', जिससे refers to a घोड़ा जीतना a race by the length of one head.
The lyrics speak of a बाध्यता horse-track gambler who compares his addiction for horses with his attraction to women.
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian from são पाउलो, a much Italian-influenced area in Brazil, and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
Le Pera and Gardel died in an वायुयान क्रैश in Medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
Por ऊना cabeza
The tango has चूंकि महरूम performed by numerous tango orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True Lies ( 1994 ), Titanic ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( Uncut Version, 2003 ), All the King 's Men ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), एपीसोड 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ), एपीसोड 9 of दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक श्रेणी मीठी जासूस ( 2005–08 ), the शुरूआत और समाप्ति क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm sorry, i Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the movie Frida ( Salma हायेक, 2002 ), Gardel is heard singing it on a radio.
It is भी कोटेड in David Del Tredici 's `` Good News !
nilda is वापस '' ( from the song cycle Miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` The Tango Project '', who actually appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ).
John Williams arranged a version of the piece that appears on the एल्बम `` सिनेमा Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have भी performed the piece together in live concerts.
In 2012 a dance version was released by the group `` Da करेरा '' featuring the असली गायन रिकॉर्डिंग by Carlos Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms लिये maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood pressure to decrease ; likewise, decreased रक्त दबाव activates the baroreflex, causing दिल रेट to बढ़ाएँ thus causing an increase in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स, ज्ञात as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid sinuses, and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem.
Subsequent changes in रक्त दबाव are mediated by the autonomic nervous system.
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative feedback loop in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin system.
The Loma Prieta earthquake, also ज्ञात as the भूकंप of '89 और the संसार श्रेणी भूकंप, was a major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on दोनो the पल परिमाण स्केल ( surface-wave परिमाण 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, घायल 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless.
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series, featuring both of the Bay Area 's Major League Baseball teams, the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related sports coverage, इस थी the पहला प्रमुख भूकंप in the United States to have its initial jolt broadcast live on television.
Pawn in the standard staunton पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in the game of chess, historically representing infantry or, more विशेषकर, हथियारबंद peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the game with eight pawns, one on each square of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces.
( In बीजीय संकेतन, the श्वेत प्यादे start on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, while black pawns start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual प्यादे हैं referred to by the file on which they stand.
For example, one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '', or कम commonly ( using वर्णनात्मक संकेतन ), `` श्वेत 's किंग 's बिशप pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file, a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a महारानी साहूकार ( on the d-file ), a king pawn ( on the e-file ), and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
the हथियारबंद शक्तियां of सबसे विकसित देशों have now removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ).
Nations that permit gay लोगों to serve खुलकर in the सैन्य शामिल the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security Council ( United States, United Kingdom, France, and Russia ), the Republic of China ( Taiwan ), Australia, Israel, South Africa, Argentina, and all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen production is the family of औद्योगिक methods for generating hydrogen.
Currently the प्रबल प्रौद्योगिकी लिये direct production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons.
Many other methods are known सहित electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the United States was estimated to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in oil refining, and in the उत्पादन of अमोनिया ( haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 million tonnes were an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali प्रक्रम.
Hydrogen production is an अनुमानित $ 100 अरब industry.
A basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '', also known as a `` beep '' ) is a unit equal to एक hundredth of a प्रतिशत पाइंट, or एक भाग प्रति टेन हजार, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, वस्तुतः अर्थ 'for ( प्रत्येक ) असंख्य ( टेन हजार ) ', और in कि कॉन्टेक्स्ट is लिखा साथ जिससे looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator, although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
A basis point is पारिभाषित as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth प्रतिशत
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts where percentage differences of कम than 1 % हैं discussed.
The most आम उदाहरण is ब्याज दरों, जहाँ मतभेद in ब्याज rates of less than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 प्रतिशत अंक is समतुल्य to a बदलें of 10 basis points ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage points, basis points avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute discussions about interest rates by dealing only with the absolute change in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % interest rate, this could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative, 1 % of 10 % ), or इससे 10 % to 11 % ( निरपेक्ष, 1 % प्लस 10 % ).
If, however, the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest रेट, तब we जान कि the ब्याज रेट of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis points to denote a rate change in a वित्तीय यंत्र, or the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between दो ब्याज rates, including the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying security, they will प्रायः be कोटेड as a स्प्रेड over ( or under ) the index.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( libor ) is कहा to be 50 आधार अंक over libor, जिससे is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
The term `` basis point '' has its origins in trading the `` आधार '' or the स्प्रेड between two interest rates.
Since the basis is usually small, these are quoted multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` पूरा पाइंट '' गति in the `` आधार '' is a basis point.
Contrast साथ pips in FX forward markets.
The relationship between percentage changes और आधार अंक can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage point change = 100 basis points, and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point.
So, a bond whose yield increases इससे 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 basis points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The अंग्रेजों royal परिवार is the समूह of close relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of any of the other Commonwealth realms, thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by birth or marriage, the House of विंडसर, चूंकि 1917, जब जार्ज v बदला the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because ब्रिटेन और उसके साम्राज्य यहूद at युद्ध साथ जर्मनी और given the British Royal Family 's strong German ancestry ; it was felt that its public image could be improved by choosing a more British house name.
The new name chosen, Windsor, had absolutely no connection अन्य than as the नाम of the किला जिससे थी और continues to be a royal residence.
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family, and different lists will include different people, those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ), or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members, which usually results in the application of the term to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the widowed consorts of previous monarchs, the children of the monarch and previous monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons.
On 30 November 1917, King George v जारी अक्षर Patent defining who are members of the Royal Family ; the text of the notice from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty The Queen modified these Letters पेटेंट, as was evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to अतिरिक्त व्यक्तियों to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and रिश्तेदारों of the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार historically represented the monarch in विभिन्न places throughout the British Empire, sometimes for extended periods as viceroys, or for specific ceremonies or events.
Today, they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on निमित्त of the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Aside from the monarch, their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve, if eligible and when appointed by letters patent, as a Counsellor of State, two or more of whom exercise the authority of the क्राउन ( भीतर stipulated हद ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch.
In the other realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल रॉयल्टी do not serve as Counsellors of State.
However in each such realm the monarch 's family members may act on निमित्त of, हैं वित्तपोषित by, और represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
The Queen, her consort, her children and grandchildren, as well as all former अधिपति ' children और grandchildren थाम स्थान in the first sections of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' precedence, and husbands of princesses are unofficially लकिन habitually placed with their wives as well.
However, the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra, who henceforth लो निजी पूर्वता over the duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, जो is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself.
She did not alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses, ऐसे as the daughters of her younger sons.
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ), officially the गणतंत्र of हैती ( ; ), is a Caribbean country.
It occupies the western, smaller portion of the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला, in the Greater Antillean archipelago, which it shares with the Dominican Republic.
Ayiti ( land of high mountains ) was the स्वदेशी Taíno or Amerindian name for the island.
The country 's highest पाइंट is pic la Selle, at.
The total area of Haiti is और इसके पूंजी is Port-au-Prince.
Haitian क्रियोल और फ्रेंच हैं the official languages.
Haiti 's regional, historical, and ethno-linguistic स्थिति is अद्वितीय लिये अनेक कारण.
It was the पहला स्वतंत्र स्वदेश of लैटिन अमेरिका और the Caribbean, the first black -led republic in the world, and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade.
In 2012, Haiti announced its intention to seek associate सदस्यता औकात in the African Union.
Haiti is the सबसे populous of the predominantly Francophone independent nations in the Americas.
It is one of only two independent nations in the americas ( साथ साथ कनाडा ) to designate फ्रेंच as an आधिकारिक language ; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the most populous full member-state of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest देश in the Americas as measured by the Human Development Index.
Political violence रै occurred regularly throughout its history, leading to government instability.
Most recently, in February 2004, a coup d'état originating in the उत्तर of the देश मजबूर the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A provisional government took control with security provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in हैती ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel martelly, the वर्तमान president, was elected in the Haitian general election, 2011.
The island has था a इतिहास of destructive earthquakes.
a 7.0 परिमाण भूकंप struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince.
The highest reliable मौत गिनती थी अनुमानित at 220,000.
haitian सरकारी estimates were higher.
The Presidential राजमहल, पार्लियामेंट और अनेक अन्य महत्वपूर्ण structures यहूद नष्ट, साथ with countless homes and businesses, leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless.
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to both the गंभीरता of the क्षति हैती endured in 2010, as खूब as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake.
United राज्य सहायता संगठन have donated $ 2 billion.
Combined साथ अन्य international donations, these funds are intended to contribute to the rebuilding of the country.
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo, the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer, DJ and photographer.
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known for the black Venom मुखौटा he wears during performances.
In fact, the only identifying पब्लिक विशेषता of rifo is the साल `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार his chest, which is both the year that the producer and punk-rock was born.
`` The Bloody beetroots dj नियत '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and Tommy Tea.
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric pager used in Brazil in the 1990s, संचालित by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives and displays numeric or text messages, or receives और announces voice messages.
One-way pagers can only receive messages, while response pagers and two-way pagers can also acknowledge, reply to, and originate messages using an internal transmitter.
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or more fixed transmitters ( or in the case of जवाब pagers और two-way pagers, one or more base stations ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range from a restaurant system with a single low-power transmitter, to a nationwide system with thousands of high-power base stations.
One of the first practical paging services was शुभारम्भ in 1950 लिये physicians in the New York City area.
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर कि होता प्राप्त फोन संदेश within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The system was manufactured by the reevesound कम्पनी और संचालित by Telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis Mitchell combined elements of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager, and from this point, paging प्रौद्योगिकी जारी to अग्रिम, और पेजर अपनाना जारी to विस्तार, जबतक the जल्दी 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as cellular technologies became cheaper and more widely उपलब्धियाँ, उन्नत सेवाएं began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche products, finding preferential use in applications such as अस्पताल, पब्लिक सुरक्षा, और खुदरा स्थितियाँ जहाँ उनके सादगी, high reliability, and low cost represent significant advantages.
reevesville is a कस्बा in dorchester County, South Carolina, United States.
The population थी 196 at the 2010 census.
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes only, Reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north charleston-summerville metropolitan area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena कार्मेन frieda kahlo y calderón ; जुलाई 6, 1907 – जुलाई 13, 1954 ) was a Mexican painter, born in Coyoacán, who is best known for her self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began and ended in Mexico City, in her घर ज्ञात as the ब्लू हाउस.
She gave her birth date as जुलाई 7, 1910, लकिन उसके birth certificate shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her birth to coincide with the year of the beginning of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin साथ the जनम of आधुनिक मैक्सिको.
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national and स्वदेशी परंपरा, और by नारीवादी लिये its uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form.
Mexican culture and Amerindian cultural tradition are important in her work, जिससे रै महरूम sometimes characterized as naïve art or folk art.
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 André Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist गति, वर्णित Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb ''.
Kahlo had a volatile विवाह with the famous Mexican artist Diego Rivera.
She suffered lifelong स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं.
Many of her health problems were the result of a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना वो बच as a किशोरावस्था.
Recovering from her injuries isolated her from other people and this अलगाव बहकावे उसके works, many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another.
Kahlo सुझाया, `` i पेंट myself because I am so often alone and because I am the subject I know best. ''
वो भी stated, `` I was born a bitch.
I was born a चित्रकार. ''
300px
theresienwiese on the day before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating बियर आयोजित annually in म्यूनिख, Bavaria, Germany, running from late September to the first weekend in October.
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and is the संसार 's largest मेला, साथ अधिक than 6 million people from around the world attending the event every year.
To the स्थानीय, it is नहीं पुकारा oktoberfest, लकिन `` die Wiesn '', after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves.
The Oktoberfest is an important part of Bavarian संस्कृति, having been held since 1810.
Other cities across the world also hold Oktoberfest celebrations, modeled बाद the असली Munich event.
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took प्लेस दौरान the सोलह दिनों up to, और including, the first Sunday in October.
In 1994, the अनुसूची थी परिवर्धित in जवाब to जर्मनी reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd, then the festival would go on until October 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the festival is now 17 days when the first Sunday is October 2 and 18 days when it is October 1.
In 2010, the पर्व lasted until the first Monday in October, to mark the anniversary of the event.
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese ( field, or meadow, of Therese ), प्रायः पुकारा wiesn लिये छोटी, स्तिथ निकट म्यूनिख 's center.
Large quantities of oktoberfest बियर हैं खपत, with almost 7 million liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007.
Visitors may also enjoy a wide किस्में of परंपरागत खाना ऐसे as hendl ( मुर्गा ), schweinebraten ( रोस्ट पोर्क ), schweinshaxe ( ग्रील्ड ham hock ), Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ), Würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ), Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings ), Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ), Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ), Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter साथ cheese and garnishes
पहियों of Gouda
Cheese is a जेनेरिक पद लिये a diverse group of milk-based food products.
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging flavors, textures, and forms.
Cheese consists of proteins and fat from milk, usually the मिल्क of गायों, भैंस, goats, or sheep.
It is produced by जामन of the milk protein casein.
Typically, the milk is acidified और जोड of the enzyme rennet causes coagulation.
The solids are अलग and pressed into final form.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at cooking तापमान.
Hundreds of types of cheese इससे विभिन्न countries are produced.
Their styles, textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's diet ), whether they have been pasteurized, the butterfat content, the जीवाणु और मोल्ड, the processing, and aging.
Herbs, spices, or wood smoke may be प्रयुक्त as flavoring agents.
The yellow to red color of many cheeses, such as Red Leicester, is normally formed इससे adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids ऐसे as vinegar or lemon juice.
Most cheeses हैं acidified to a lesser उपाधि by जीवाणु, जिससे turn milk sugars into lactic acid, then the addition of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are उपलब्धियाँ ; सबसे हैं उत्पादित by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei, but others have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued for its पोर्टेबिलिटी, long जीवन, और high content of fat, protein, calcium, and phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk, although how long a cheese will keep may depend on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to पाँच दिनों of खोलने.
Generally बोलना, मुश्किल cheeses पिछला longer than soft cheeses, such as Brie or goat 's milk cheese.
cheesemakers near a dairy region may benefit from fresher, lower-priced milk, and lower shipping costs.
The long storage life of कुछ चीज, विशेषकर if it is encased in a protective rind, allows selling when markets are favorable.
Additional ingredients may be added to some cheeses, ऐसे as ब्लैक मिर्च, लहसुन, chives or cranberries.
A specialist seller of cheese is sometimes ज्ञात as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in this field, like wine or cooking, requires कुछ औपचारिक शिक्षा और सालो of चख and hands-on experience.
इस स्थिति is typically responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheese menu, purchasing, receiving, storage, and ripening.
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals सहायता a रीडर जल्दी discern अर्थ or usefulness of a particular reference when the reference itself does not provide adequate information.
सबसे citation सिग्नल हैं placed in front of the citation to which they apply.
For उदाहरण, in the paragraph When writing a legal argument, it is important to refer to primary sources.
To assist readers in locating these sources, it is desirable to use a मानकीकृत citation स्वरूप.
See generally Harvard Law Review Association, the bluebook : a वर्दी System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some courts may require any legal papers that are सुपुर्द to them to conform to a different citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` see generally, '' which indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : A वर्दी प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides सामान्य background information on the topic.
Neil एल्डन आर्मस्ट्रांग ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to walk on the Moon.
He was also an aerospace engineer, naval aviator, test pilot, and विश्वविद्यालयों professor.
Before becoming an astronaut, Armstrong was an officer in the U.S. Navy and served in the कोरियाई War.
After the war, he earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue University and served as a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics high-speed उड़ान स्टेशन, अभी ज्ञात as the ड्राइडेन उड़ान शोध बीच, where he logged over 900 flights.
He later समाप्त ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन at the University of Southern California.
A भागीदार in the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स 's man in स्पेस soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight programs, Armstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962.
He made his first space flight, as command pilot of Gemini 8, in 1966, बनने नासा 's पहला civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On this mission, he performed the first docking of two spacecraft, साथ पायलट David Scott.
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight थी as मिशन कमांडर of the Apollo 11 moon landing, in July 1969.
On this मिशन, आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन descended to the चंद्र सतह और खर्च two and a half hours exploring, while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module.
Along with Collins and Aldrin, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978, President Jimmy Carter presented आर्मस्ट्रांग the congressional स्पेस पदक of सम्मान in 1978 ; he और उसके former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in Cincinnati, Ohio, on August 25, 2012, at the आयु of 82, बाद complications from coronary artery bypass surgery.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an अमरीकी Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), और the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is considered to be एक of the महानतम Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN क्रमित सचिवालय the 35th बेहतरीन athlete of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय थी sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन County, Virginia.
Like उसके प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
स्वामित्व by पैनी chenery, he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered रंगों और उसके दूल्हे थी एडी Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, and weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the पूंजी और largest city of Spain.
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the Madrid महानगर क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5 million.
It is the third-largest city in the European संघ, बाद लंदन और बर्लिन, और इसके metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris.
The city spans a total of.
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the city of मैड्रिड, इसके conurbation और विस्तारित उपनगरों and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital city of Spain, seat of सरकारी, और निवास of the स्पेनी monarch, Madrid is also the political, economic and cultural centre of Spain.
The current mayor is Ana botella इससे the People 's Party ( PP ).
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its प्रभाव in राजनीती, शिक्षा, entertainment, पर्यावरण, मीडिया, फ़ैशन, विज्ञान, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities.
Due to its economic output, high standard of living, and market size, Madrid is considered the major financial centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the प्रमुख स्पेनी कंपनियाँ, ऐसे as telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic नगर of स्पेन, the fourth-most touristic of the continent, and the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable city in the world according to Monocle पत्रिका, in इसके 2010 index.
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a प्रत्याशी नगर लिये the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Madrid घरों the मुख्यालय of the संसार पर्यटन संगठन ( wto ), belonging to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र संगठन ( UN ), the SEGIB, the Organization of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language Academies, headquarters of the royal स्पेनी अकादमी ( rae ), the cervantes संस्थान and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes fairs as FITUR, ARCO, SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid फ़ैशन सप्ताह.
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure, it has preserved the look and feel of many of इसके ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods और गलियों.
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park, founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing some of Spain 's historical archives ; a large number of National museums, and the Golden Triangle of Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : प्राडो संग्रहालय, the museo nacional centro de arte reina sofía, a museum of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have become the monument symbol of the city.
The path of the Via appia और of the Via Appia Traiana.
remains of the Appian Way in Rome, near Quarto Miglio
Near रोम.
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) was one of the earliest और रणनीतिक most important Roman roads of the ancient republic.
It कनेक्ट रोम to brindisi, Apulia, in southeast Italy.
Its महत्व is indicated by its common name, recorded by Statius :
appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the Appian way is the queen of the long सड़कें ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor who began और समाप्त the first section as a military road to the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars.
The Draupner wave, a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995, finally confirmed the अस्तित्व of freak लहरें, जिससे था previously महरूम considered near-mythical
दुष्ट लहरें ( भी ज्ञात as freak लहरें, दानव लहरें, killer waves, extreme waves, and abnormal waves ) are relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far out at sea, and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, वे हैं अधिक precisely defined as waves whose height is more than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ), which is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record.
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves found at समुद्र ; वे हैं, बल्कि, surprisingly large waves for a given sea state.
Rogue waves seem not to have a single पृथक कारण, लकिन occur जहाँ शारीरिक कारकों ऐसे as ऊँची हवाएँ और strong currents cause waves to merge to create a single exceptionally large wave.
Electress sophia of हनोवर ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible to succeed to the सिंहासन of the संयुक्त किंगडम और the अन्य 15 राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the electress sophia of हनोवर और उसके वंशजों जबकि excluding Roman Catholics.
The British government does नहीं प्रकाशित an आधिकारिक सूची of सब those in लकीर to सफल, but the work of genealogical authors and amateur researchers suggests that there are several thousand people potentially in line.
At a summit in Perth, Western Australia in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture, end the exclusion of लोगों शादीशुदा to रोमन Catholics, and make other changes in the succession rules.
the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार is भी प्रयुक्त to select the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) under the provisions of the Regency Act 1937.
For earlier versions of the line of succession, see History of the अंग्रेजों लकीर of उत्तराधिकार.
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) थी an अमरीकी फिल्मी और stage actor The New York Times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun, the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock 's I कबूल, the doomed नियमित सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली prewitt in फ्रेड zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity, and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car क्रैश in 1956, and alcohol and prescription drug abuse, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were still his, including `` the reckless, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The Misfits, the title role in Huston 's, and the विशेषज्ञता शिविर victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift प्राप्त चार अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations दौरान उसके career, three for Best Actor and one for Best Supporting Actor.
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान जिससे प्रारंभ as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
This resulted in an international सैन्य अभियान to eliminate al-qaeda and other militant organizations.
The United Kingdom and many other NATO and non-NATO nations participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was first used by US President George W. Bush on 20 सितंबर 2001.
The Bush administration and the Western media have since प्रयुक्त the पद to signify a वैश्विक सैन्य, राजनैतिक, lawful, and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them.
It was typically used साथ a particular फ़ोकस on militant Islamists, al-Qaeda, and other jihadi groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ), it is still commonly प्रयुक्त by politicians, in the media and by some aspects of government officially, such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein, westerplatte, सितंबर 1, 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after her आगे पत्रिका थी detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic मुद्दे, अनसुलझे मुद्दे, और resentments resulting इससे संसार War I and the interwar period in Europe, in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s.
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of युद्ध हैं generally समझा to be the 1939 invasion of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan.
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the सत्तावादी सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in जर्मनी और by the leadership of the Kwantung Army in Japan.
World युद्ध ii प्रारंभ बाद ये आक्रामक actions were met with an official declaration of war and/or armed resistance.
The following is a list of देवताओं और अन्य दैवी and semi-divine figures from Greek mythology.
the सूची करता नहीं शामिल जीव ; for these, see List of Greek mythological creatures.
The Mitsubishi galant is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 and 2012.
The name was derived from the French word galant, meaning `` chivalrous ''.
There have been nine distinct generations, and cumulative sales now exceed पाँच million.
It began as a कॉम्पैक्ट सेडान, but over the course of its life has evolved into a larger mid-size car.
आरंभिक उत्पादन थी तभी आधारित in जापानी, लकिन चूंकि 1994 the American market has been served by vehicles assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial रक्त दबाव, is the दबाव exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When used without further specification, `` रक्त दबाव '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation.
During each heartbeat, blood pressure varies between a maximum ( systolic ) और a न्यूनतम ( diastolic ) pressure.
The blood दबाव in the परिसंचरण is principally due to the pumping action of the heart.
मतभेद in औसत रक्त pressure are responsible for blood flow from one location to another in the circulation.
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the resistance to flow presented by the blood vessels.
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating blood moves away from the दिल through धमनियों and capillaries due to viscous losses of energy.
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole परिसंचरण, हालांकि सबसे of the पतन occurs along the small arteries and arterioles.
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., during standing ) and valves in veins, breathing, and pumping इससे संकुचन of skeletal मांसपेशियां भी influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure measured at a person 's अपर भुजा और is a माप of the दबाव in the brachial धमनी, the major artery in the upper arm.
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in शर्तें of the systolic दबाव over diastolic दबाव and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ), for example 120/80.
A veto – लैटिन लिये `` i forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त by an अधिकारी of the state, for example ) to unilaterally stop an official action, especially the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the United Nations Security Council, whose permanent सदस्यों ( चीन, फ़्रांस, रूस, संयुक्त किंगडम, संयुक्त राज्य of America ) can block any resolution.
Or it can be limited, as in the legislative प्रक्रम of the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation.
A veto only gives power to stop changes, not to adopt उन्हें ( मगर लिये the विरल `` amendatory veto '' ).
Thus a veto allows its holder to protect the status quo.
The अवधारणा of a वीटो देह originated with the Roman consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could ब्लाक a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the other ; any tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
Sulfur dioxide ( भी गंधक dioxide ) is the chemical compound with the formula.
it is a विषाक्त गैस साथ a pungent, irritating smell, that is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
चूंकि कोयले और पेट्रोलियम प्रायः contain sulfur compounds, their combustion generates sulfur dioxide unless the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the उपस्थिति of a उत्प्रेरक such as NO2, forms H2SO4, and thus acid rain.
Sulfur dioxide emissions हैं भी a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere.
Both of these impacts are cause for चिंता over the environmental impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '', `` weakness '', and `` serious '' ; abbreviated mg ) is an असंक्राम्य neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an autoimmune disorder, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन, inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in selected cases, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million per year and rising as a result of increased जागरूकता.
MG must be विशिष्ट इससे जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes that can present similar symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments.
परावर्तक मुड़ nematic liquid crystal display.
Polarizing filter film with a लंबवत अक्ष to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate with ITO electrodes.
The आकार of ये electrodes होगा determine the shapes that will appear when the LCD is turned ON.
Vertical ridges etched on the सतह are smooth.
मुड़ nematic liquid crystal.
कांच substrate साथ आम एलेक्ट्रोड film ( ITO ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the horizontal filter.
Polarizing filter film with a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to भेजें लाइट वापस to viewer.
( In a backlit एलसीडी, इस परत is replaced with a light source. )
A liquid-crystal display ( एलसीडी ) is a चपटा फलक प्रदर्शक, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक विज़ुअल प्रदर्शक, or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
द्रव crystals do not emit light directly.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be displayed or hidden, such as preset शब्द, अंक, और 7-segment प्रदर्शक as in a digital clock.
They use the same basic technology, except that arbitrary images are made up of a विशाल क्रमांक of छोटी पिक्सेल, जबकि अन्य displays have larger elements.
LCDs are प्रयुक्त in a चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग सहित कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर, televisions, instrument panels, aircraft cockpit displays, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as video players, gaming devices, clocks, watches, calculators, और telephones, and have replaced cathode ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications.
They are available in a wider range of स्क्रीन आकार than crt और प्लाज्मा प्रदर्शक, और चूंकि वे do नहीं use phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
LCDs are, however, susceptible to चित्र हठ.
The LCD screen is more energy efficient and can be disposed of more safely than a CRT.
Its low electrical power consumption enables it to be प्रयुक्त in बैटरी -powered electronic equipment.
It is an electronically modulated ऑप्टिकल यंत्र बना up of any number of segments filled with liquid crystals and arrayed in front of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
Liquid crystals यहूद पहला खोजा in 1888.
by 2008, विश्वव्यापी बिक्री of टेलीविज़न with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the CRT became obsolete for most purposes.
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a luxury hotel, casino, and spa in Atlantic नगर, New Jersey, United States.
It is owned by Marina District Development, a joint venture between Boyd Gaming और a divesture विश्वास स्थापित by MGM Resorts International.
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 कक्ष और is the largest होटल in नई Jersey.
The borgata खोली in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
A bottle of high potency b-complex vitamin supplement pills.
A विटामिन ( or ) is an organic compound required by an organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts.
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of यौगिकों ) is called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from the diet.
Thus, the term is conditional both on the हालातों और on the particular organism.
For example, ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans, but not for सबसे अन्य पशु, और biotin और विटामिन d हैं required in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
By convention, the term विटामिन शामिल neither अन्य अनिवार्य nutrients, such as dietary minerals, essential fatty acids, or essential amino acids ( which are needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often.
Thirteen vitamins are universally पहचाना at present.
Vitamins are classified by their biological and chemical कार्यकलाप, नहीं उनके structure.
Thus, each `` vitamin '' refers to a क्रमांक of vitamer यौगिकों कि सब show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin.
Such a set of रसायन is grouped अंतर्गत an alphabetized विटामिन `` जेनेरिक वर्णनकर्ता '' शीर्षक, ऐसे as `` vitamin A ``, which includes the compounds retinal, retinol, and four known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the क्रियाशील रूप of the विटामिन in the देह, and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
Vitamins have विविध biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like कृत्यों as regulators of खनिज चयापचय ( such as vitamin D ), or regulators of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ).
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin E और sometimes विटामिन C ).
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex vitamins ) function as precursors for enzyme cofactors, that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in चयापचय.
In this role, विटामिन may be tightly बंधी to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic समूह : For example, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable अणुओं कि फलन to carry रासायनिक समूह or electrons between molecules.
For example, folic एसिड may carry मिथाइल, formyl, and methylene groups in the cell.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ हैं विटामिन ' best-known function, the other vitamin functions are equally important.
Until the mid-1930s, when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold, vitamins were obtained solely through food intake, and changes in diet ( which, for example, could occur दौरान a particular growing ऋतु ) प्रायः greatly altered the प्रकार और amounts of विटामिन ingested.
However, vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely उपलब्धियाँ as inexpensive semisynthetic और synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and additives, since the middle of the 20th century.
World Muslim population by प्रतिशत ( pew शोध Center, 2009 )
World Muslim जनसांख्यिकी in लाखो
Islam is the world 's दूसरी largest धर्म after Christianity.
According to a 2010 पढ़ाई, islam रै 1.62 अरब adherents, making up over 23 % of the world population.
Islam is the predominant धर्म in the मध्य ईस्ट, in सहेल, in the Horn of Africa and northern Africa, and in some parts of Asia.
Large समुदायों of मुसलमान हैं also found in China, the Balkans, and Russia.
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe, for उदाहरण, islam is the second largest religion after Christianity, where it represents 6 % of the total population.
according to the Pew Research Center in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries.
around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in South and Southeast Asia, with over 1 billion adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the world 's मुसलमान, followed by पाकिस्तानी ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of मुसलमान सजीव in Arab countries.
In the Middle East, the non-Arab countries of तुर्कों और इरान हैं the largest Muslim-majority countries ; in Africa, Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities.
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 और released जनवरी 2011 मिला कि वहीँ हैं 1.62 अरब Muslims around the world.
The study found more Muslims in the संयुक्त किंगडम than in Lebanon and more in China than in Syria.
Rhode Island ( or ), officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence बागानों, is a राज्य in the New England region of the United States.
Rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth least populous, but the second सबसे densely आबादी of the 50 US states behind New Jersey.
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the वेस्ट और मैसाचुसेट्स to the उत्तर और east, and it shares a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest.
Rhode Island was the first of the 13 original colonies to declare independence from British rule, declaring itself स्वतंत्र on may 4, 1776, दो महीने पहले कोई अन्य colony.
The State was also the last of the thirteen original colonies to ratify the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean State '', a reference to the State 's geography, since rhode द्वीप रै अनेक विशाल bays और inlets कि राशि to about 14 % of its total area.
Its land area is, लकिन इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the United Arab अमीरात, located within the emirate of the same name.
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf on the Arabian प्रायद्वीप और is एक of the सात emirates that make up the country.
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by क्षेत्रफल ( 4,114 km2 ) बाद Abu Dhabi.
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, the national capital, are the तभी दो अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over नाजुक matters of national importance in the country 's legislature.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a देश or city-state और, in some cases, the UAE as a whole has been described as 'Dubai '.
The earliest जिक्र of दुबई is in 1095 AD, and the earliest recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799.
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by शेख़ maktoum बिन butti al-maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of his tribe of the Bani Yas, living in what was then the Second Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia, to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the देश 's दूसरी अमीर.
Its strategic geographic location made the कस्बा an महत्वपूर्ण trading hub and by the beginning of the 20th century, Dubai was already an important regional port.
Today, Dubai has उभरा as a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन metropolis कि रै grown steadily to become a global city and a business and cultural hub of the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry, the emirate 's Western-style model of कारोबार ड्राइव इसके अर्थव्यवस्था with the main revenues now coming from tourism, real estate, and financial services.
Dubai has recently आकर्षित संसार attention through many innovative large construction projects and sports events.
The city रै become सांकेतिक लिये इसके skyscrapers और high-rise इमारतें, such as the world 's tallest Burj Khalifa, in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands, hotels, and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world.
This increased attention has also highlighted मजदूर और human rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce.
Dubai 's प्रॉपर्टी मार्केट अनुभवी a प्रमुख deterioration in 2008–2009 as a result of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai has made a steady और क्रमिक रिकवरी साथ help coming from neighboring emirates.
the handful of नई प्रोजेक्ट कि are in the pipeline have been able to help Dubai real estate make a comeback.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most महंगी नगर in the संसार, और the सबसे expensive city in the Middle East, surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to live in the Middle East, including by US American global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the U.S. state of Illinois.
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting the Earth 's planetary boundary layer and क्षोभमण्डल.
Waves on an समंदर coast.
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography parameters such as समंदर currents, समंदर हवाएँ, sea surface height and sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of classical antiquity ) is a body of saline जल कि composes a विशाल भाग of a ग्रह 's hydrosphere.
In the context of Earth, it refers to एक or सब of the प्रमुख विभाजन of the ग्रह 's संसार Ocean – they are, in descending order of area, the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, Southern ( Antarctic ), and Arctic Oceans.
the शब्द `` समुद्र `` is प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably with `` ocean '', but strictly speaking a sea is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
Earth is the तभी ग्रह ज्ञात to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of open liquid water ).
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline water that is customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल oceans and smaller seas, with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In terms of the जलमंडल of the धरती, the समंदर contains 97 % of the Earth 's water.
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97 %, only 5 % of the ocean as a whole on Earth has been explored.
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere, the world ocean is अभिन्न to सब ज्ञात जीवन, फ़ॉर्म part of the carbon cycle, and influences climate and weather patterns.
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion cubic किलोमीटर ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species, although much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two लाख समुद्री प्रजाति मौजूद.
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown, but oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have महरूम the impetus लिये the emergence of life.
extraterrestrial महासागर may be composed of a wide range of elements and compounds.
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial सतह liquids are the lakes of Titan, although there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System.
Early in their geologic histories, मंगल और शुक्र हैं theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the surface of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल, हालांकि the जल on Mars is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point, so कि जल might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
अपुष्ट महासागर हैं speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf planets and natural satellites ; notably, the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth.
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess द्रव वायुमंडलीय परतों of yet to be confirmed compositions.
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons, including surface oceans of liquid water within a circumstellar habitable zone.
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of planet with a सतह completely covered with liquid.
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8, 1935 – अगस्त 16, 1977 ) was an American singer and actor.
A सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक, he is commonly known by the single name Elvis.
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th century, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley moved to Memphis, टेनेसी, साथ उसके परिवार at the age of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips, who wanted to bring the ध्वनि of african-american म्यूज़िक to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black, प्रेस्ली थी the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom पार्कर, who went on to manage the singer for over two decades.
Presley 's first RCA single, `` heartbreak होटल ``, released in जनवरी 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of चट्टान और फेंकें साथ a श्रेणी of network television appearances and chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of songs, many from African-American sources, and his uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he made his film डेब्यू in प्रेम Me Tender.
Drafted into military service in 1958, Presley relaunched his recording करियर दो सालो बाद with some of his most commercially successful work.
He staged few concerts however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making हॉलीवुड फिल्मों and soundtrack albums, most of them critically derided.
In 1968, after seven years away from the stage, he returned to live performance in a मनाये वापसी टेलीविज़न खास कि led to an विस्तारित लास Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours.
In 1973 Presley staged the first कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via उपग्रह, aloha from Hawaii.
Prescription drug abuse severely deteriorated his health, and he died एकाएक in 1977 at the age of 42.
Presley is regarded as एक of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture.
He had a versatile voice and unusually चौड़ी कामयाबी encompassing अनेक जाति, सहित country, pop ballads, gospel, and blues.
He is the best-selling solo artist in the history of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक.
Nominated for 14 competitive Grammys, he जीती तीन, और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी आजीवन Achievement Award at age 36.
He has महरूम inducted into multiple music halls of fame.
A glass of रूट बियर साथ foam
Root beer is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally made using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the प्राथमिक स्वाद.
Root beer, popularized in North America, comes in two फ़ॉर्म : alcoholic and soft drink.
The historical root beer was analogous to small beer in कि the प्रक्रम provided a पेय साथ a बहुत low alcohol content.
हालांकि जड़ें हैं प्रयुक्त as the सोर्स of many soft drinks throughout the world, often different names are used.
Fluorescent खनिज emit दृश्य light when exposed to ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the emission of light by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित लाइट or other electromagnetic radiation.
It is a रूप of luminescence.
In most cases, the emitted light has a longer wavelength, और इसलिए lower energy, than the absorbed radiation.
However, when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense, it is possible for one electron to absorb two photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted radiation may also be of the same wavelength as the absorbed विकिरण, termed `` अनुनाद प्रतिदीप्ति ''.
The most striking examples of प्रतिदीप्ति occur जब the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum, and thus invisible to the human eye, and the emitted light is in the visible region.
Fluorescence has अनेक व्यावहारिक applications, including mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( fluorescence spectroscopy ), fluorescent labelling, dyes, biological detectors, and, most commonly, fluorescent lamps.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a formal setting.
However, perhaps because of the अनौपचारिक in the शीर्षक, the precise definition of informal logic is a matter of some dispute.
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards, criteria, procedures लिये the विश्लेषण, निर्वचन, मूल्यांकन, criticism and construction of argumentation. ''
This definition reflects what had महरूम अव्यक्त in उनके अभ्यास और कया others were doing in their informal logic texts.
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies, नाजुक सोच, the सोच Skills Movement and the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal लॉजिक '' कवर a `` संग्रहण of normative approaches to the पढ़ाई of reasoning in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, with the years of the Great अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression began in अगस्त of 1929, जब the संयुक्त States economy first went into an economic recession.
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP, it was not until the Wall Street Crash of October, 1929 that the effects of a declining economy were felt, and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment, गरीबी, कम profits, अपस्फीति, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.
Although its causes are still uncertain and controversial, the net effect was a अचानक और सामान्य घाटा of confidence in the economic future.
The usual explanations include numerous कारकों, विशेषकर ऊँची उपभोक्ता कर्ज़, ill-regulated बाज़ार कि permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors, and the lack of high-growth new industries, all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending, falling confidence, and lowered production.
Industries that suffered the most included construction, agriculture as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, mining, and logging as well as durable goods जैसे ऑटोमोबाइल और उपकरण कि could be postponed.
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33 ; तब आए चार सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास जबतक 1937, जब the मंदी of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment.
The Depression caused major political परिवर्तन in America.
Three years into the depression, Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan, the New Deal, instituted unprecedented programs for relief, recovery and reform, and brought about a प्रमुख realignment of अमरीकी राजनीती.
The Depression also resulted in an increase of करणों of लोगों to अन्य countries for the first time in American history.
For example, some आप्रवासियों गई वापस to उनके देशी देशों, and some native US citizens went to Canada, Australia, and South Africa.
It also resulted in the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and the South to places such as California और the उत्तर, क्रमशः ( देखिए okies और the ग्रेट माइग्रेशन of African Americans ).
Racial tensions also increased दौरान this time.
By the 1940s immigration had लौटे वापस to सामान्य, और emigration declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant थी फ़्रैंक mccourt, who went to Ireland, as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes.
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of अर्थशास्त्र और resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt साथ आर्थिक downturns, such as the use of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped modern American literature, resulting in famous novels such as John steinbeck 's `` the अंगूर of प्रकोप `` और `` of Mice and Men ``.
The Great Depression of the 1930s प्रारंभ साथ the भण्डार market crash of October 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, located mostly on Anatolia in Western एशिया और on ईस्ट thrace in southeastern Europe.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; Georgia to the पूर्वोत्तर ; अर्मेनिया, इरान और the अज़रबैजानी exclave of nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the Aegean Sea is to the west ; and the Black Sea is to the north.
The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which साथ रूप the तुर्की straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia.
तुर्कों 's स्थान at the क्रॉसरोड्स of Europe and Asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic importance.
The country 's official language is Turkish, a Turkic language, which is spoken by approximately 85 % of the जनसांख्यिकी as mother tongue.
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks, who constitute between 70 % और 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook.
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and, according to the same source, number around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी जबकि अन्य जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों are estimated to be at 7–12 %.
The vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी is मुस्लिम.
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited since the Paleolithic, including various Ancient Anatolian सभ्यताओं और thracian peoples.
After सिकंदर the ग्रेट 's conquest, the क्षेत्रफल थी hellenized, which continued with the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire.
the सलजूक़ turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the process of Turkification, which was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol आक्रमण in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th सदी, the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and created an empire encompassing much of Southeastern Europe, Western Asia and North Africa.
After the Ottoman साम्राज्य collapsed following its defeat in World War I, parts of it were occupied by the victorious Allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues, organized a successful resistance to the allies ; in 1923 वे स्थापित the आधुनिक गणतंत्र of Turkey, with Atatürk as its first president.
Turkey is a democratic, secular, unitary, संवैधानिक गणतंत्र with a diverse cultural heritage.
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the परिषद of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
Turkey began पूरा सदस्यता negotiations साथ the European Union in 2005, having been an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close cultural, political and economic relations with the Middle East, Caucasus, the Turkic states of Central Asia and the African countries through membership in organisations such as the turkic परिषद, संयुक्त प्रशासन of turkic कला और संस्कृति, संगठन of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing economy and राजनयिक पहलों have led to its recognition as a regional power.
तुर्कों is the संसार 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP and the 16th largest by purchasing power parity.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated ब्लैक woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination for the Academy Award लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके पहला सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include सिस्टर अधिनियम और सिस्टर अधिनियम 2, the खिलाड़ी, बना in अमेरिका, कैसा स्टेला Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश, और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली, as खूब as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
गोल्डबर्ग रै been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards for her work in television.
She was co-producer of the popular game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk दिखाएँ the दृश्य चूंकि 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden Globes, a Tony ( for production, नहीं एक्टिंग ), और an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy फिल्मी पुरस्कार, चार लोगों 's चुनाव Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता who have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
Augusta is a consolidated city in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया, स्तिथ at the fall line of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the augusta– रिचमंड काउंटी जनसांख्यिकी थी 195,844 नहीं गिनती the unconsolidated cities of Hephzibah and Blythe.
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – रिचमंड काउंटी महानगर Statistical Area, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest city in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Internationally, Augusta is best ज्ञात लिये होस्टिंग The Masters Tournament in golf each spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे contains data.
The नाम is an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory ``.
Computers can read CD-ROMs, but can not लिखें on उन्हें.
CD-ROMs are popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित computer software, including video games and multimedia applications, though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player, while आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the तकनीकी मानक that defines the format of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats, the Yellow Book, created by सोनी और फिलिप्स, थी the पहला एक्सटेंशन of कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क डिजिटल Audio.
It adapted the स्वरूप to hold any form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as ब्लैक चीलों पहले 1986, और ज्ञात colloquially as the Hawks ) are a professional ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois.
They are सदस्यों of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of the Western Conference of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
They have जीती चार स्टेनली कप championships since their founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks are एक of the Original Six NHL teams, along with the Detroit Red Wings, Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the Blackhawks have played their home games at the संयुक्त बीच बाद having खर्च 65 सालो playing at Chicago Stadium.
Lent celebrants carrying आउट a street procession during Holy Week.
The violet color is often associated with penance and detachment.
Similar Christian penitential अभ्यास is देखी in अन्य Catholic countries, sometimes associated with mortification of the flesh.
granada, Nicaragua.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations, स्थायी लिये a काल of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday.
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken to run from Ash Wednesday to maundy गुरुवार ( पावन Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve.
In the Catholic Church, Lent lasts until Holy Thursday, while other denominations चलाएं जबतक Easter Eve.
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer through prayer, penance, तौबा, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the सालाना commemoration of पावन सप्ताह, अंकन the मौत, दफ़न और क़यामत of Jesus, which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on Good Friday, which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the faithful commit to fasting or giving up निश्चित प्रकार of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The Stations of the Cross, a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's carrying the क्रॉस and of his execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their altars, while crucifixes, religious statues, and other विस्तृत धार्मिक प्रतीकों हैं प्रायः रहमत in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, some adherents mark the season with the परंपरागत abstention इससे the खपत of meat.
In some countries, grand धार्मिक जुलूसों और सांस्कृतिक कस्टम हैं observed, और the faithful attempt to visit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally वर्णित as स्थायी लिये चालीस दिनों, in commemoration of the चालीस दिनों जिससे, according to the gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
However, different ईसाई denominations गणना the forty days of Lent differently.
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; thus the period from Ash Wednesday until ईस्टर consists of 40 दिनों जब the sundays हैं excluded.
However in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर Lent is now taken to end on Holy Thursday rather than Easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, along with its pious customs are observed by Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, presbyterians, और Anglicans.
Location of Chernobyl नाभिकीय power plant
The abandoned नगर of pripyat साथ chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी SSR ), which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the माहौल, which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely माना to have महरूम the worst नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र दुर्घटना in इतिहास, और is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed, and long-term effects ऐसे as cancers और deformities हैं स्टिल being accounted for.
In grammar, a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking verb ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the विषय of the वाक्य by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the former case, a renaming संज्ञा phrase such as a noun or pronoun is called a predicative nominal.
An adjective following the copula and describing the विषय is पुकारा a predicative adjective.
In either case the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject.
Subject complements are used with a small class of verbs called linking क्रियाएँ or copula, of which be is the most common.
Since copula are stative verbs, विषय complements हैं नहीं प्रभावित by any action of the verb.
Subject complements are typically not clause वितर्क, nor हैं वे clause adjuncts.
Throughout the fifty-five year इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, many significant records have been set.
This page only includes the competitive awards won by विभिन्न artists.
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार, trustees पुरस्कार, तकनीकी पुरस्कार or Legend Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), better known by his stage name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by उसके alter अहंकार पतला छायादार, is an अमरीकी rapper, रिकार्ड निर्माता, songwriter and actor.
Eminem, along with his solo career, is a member of his group D12, and also one half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil, साथ रॉयस da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is एक of the best-selling artists in the world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s.
He has been listed and ranked as one of the महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय by अनेक magazines, including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
The same magazine declared him The King of हिप हॉप.
Including his work with d12 और Bad Meets Evil, Eminem has achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
He has sold more than 100 million records विश्वव्यापी, सहित 42 लाख ट्रैक्स and 49.1 million albums in the United States.
As an भूमिगत rapper एमिनेम released his debut solo album, Infinite in 1996.
The एल्बम थी a critical and commercial failure.
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of his major-label डेब्यू एल्बम The Slim Shady LP.
The LP also earned Eminem his first Grammy Award for बेहतरीन Rap Album.
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP, and The Eminem Show, also won Best Rap Album Grammy पुरस्कार, बनाना एमिनेम the पहला कलाकार to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs.
इस थी followed by another studio release in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem then went on अंतराल बाद touring in 2005.
He released उसके पहला एल्बम in पाँच years titled Relapse, on May 15, 2009.
In 2010, Eminem released उसके सातवाँ studio album Recovery.
Recovery was an international success and was named the best selling album of 2010 worldwide, joining The Eminem Show, जिससे थी the बेहतरीन विक्रेता of 2002.
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery, giving उसे a कुल of 13 Grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened other ventures, including his own record label Shady Records with his manager पॉल rosenberg.
He also has his own radio channel, Shade 45 on Sirius XM रेडियो.
एमिनेम began an acting career in 2002, when he starred in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile.
He won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, becoming the first रैप कलाकार कभी to जीत the award.
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ), मजेदार लोगों ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage.
The acre is a unit of area used in the imperial and U.S. प्रथागत प्रणालियों.
An acre is about 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – slightly smaller than an American football field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is स्टिल used, to some extent, in Canada.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक of the acre is ac, and is defined as 1/640 of a square mile.
the सबसे commonly used acre today is the international acre.
In the United States दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the slightly different US survey acre are in use.
The most common use of the एकड़ is to माप tracts of land.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre was the amount of जमीन कि could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Antoine लाव्वाज़्ये 's डिस्कवरी of the विधि of संरक्षण of Mass led to many new findings in the 19th century.
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions और जॉन डाल्टन 's atomic theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that combustion involved oxygen rather than what was previously विचार to be phlogiston.
The law of conservation of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of which have mass ), the mass of the system must remain constant over समय, as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if it is not added or removed.
Hence, the मात्रा of द्रव्यमान is `` conserved '' over time.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor नष्ट, हालांकि it may be rearranged in space, or the entities associated with it may be changed in form, as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction, nuclear reaction, or रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय in an isolated system, the mass of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products.
The concept of mass conservation is widely प्रयुक्त in अनेक फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रसायन, mechanics, and fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass conservation was discovered in chemical reactions by Antoine Lavoisier in the late 18th century, and was of crucial importance in the प्रगति इससे alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed तभी लिये the ऊँची energies treated by the later refinements of relativity theory, but otherwise remains useful and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations, even in modern practice.
In special relativity, needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is involved, the difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important, since conservation of द्रव्यमान is सख्ती और perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called पृथक प्रणालियों, i.e. those completely पृथक इससे सब exchanges with the environment.
In this परिस्थिति, the mass-energy equivalence theorem states that mass conservation is equivalent to total energy conservation, which is the first law of thermodynamics.
By contrast, for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e., one which is closed to exchanges of पदार्थ, लकिन खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा, ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य, with the surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory, although the बदलें is प्रायः छोटी, चूंकि अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ).
In special relativity, mass is not converted to energy, since energy in all of its forms always retains इसके समतुल्य राशि of द्रव्यमान throughout any transformation or translocation into, or out of, a system.
However, certain types of matter ( a अलग अवधारणा ) may be परिवर्तित to energy, so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process.
However, if such energy is removed from प्रणालियों, वे जरूर खोना the mass that is associated with it.
In general relativity, mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of स्पेस is a जटिल अवधारणा, विषय to अलग परिभाषाएं, और neither द्रव्यमान nor उर्जा is as सख्ती and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space.
For a discussion, see द्रव्यमान in सामान्य relativity.
A pig is any of the पशु in the genus Sus, within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the domestic pig, इसके पूर्वज the wild boar, and several other wild relatives.
Young and छोटी सूअर हैं ज्ञात as piglets.
Pigs are omnivores and are highly social and बुद्धिमान पशु.
8-inch, -inch, and -inch floppy disks
8-inch, -inch ( full height ), and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' magnetic material, removed इससे इसके आवास
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a disk storage medium composed of a disk of thin and लचीली चुम्बकीय भंडार मीडियम, sealed in a आयताकार plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles.
They are पढ़ा और written by a floppy disk drive ( FDD ).
Floppy disks, initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes, were a ubiquitous form of data भंडार और एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s well into the first decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be used as an external usb ड्राइव, लकिन ``, 8 ``, और non-standard ड्राइव could only be handled by old equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses, especially with legacy industrial computer equipment, they have been superseded by data storage methods with much greater capacity, such as USB flash ड्राइव, पोर्टेबल बाह्य मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव, ऑप्टिकल discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
An एनिमेटेड आरेख of a cutter
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball जिससे ब्रेक थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने पक्ष as it reaches home plate.
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball, as it is usually thrown faster than a स्लाइडर लकिन साथ अधिक गति than a ठेठ fastball.
Some pitchers use a कटर as a रास्ता to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs.
A common technique used to throw a कटर is to उपयोग a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand.
When a batter is able to hit a cutter pitch, it often results in soft contact and an easy out, due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the चमगादड़ 's मीठी स्पॉट.
The cutter is typically 2–5 किमी धीमा than a पिचर 's four-seam fastball.
In 2010, the average pitch classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher थी 88.6 किमी ; the औसत four-seamer was 92.1 mph.
`` What It takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by American hard rock band Aerosmith.
It was written by Steven टायलर, जो पेरी, and Desmond Child.
It was released in 1990 as the तीसरा सिंगल इससे Aerosmith 's critically and commercially successful 1989 album Pump.
In the video The Making of पंप, a & r man John Kalodner described the song as `` a masterpiece ''.
During सजीव प्रदर्शन, टायलर गाती the पहला श्लोक a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus.
The album संस्करण of the सोंग is followed by an untitled hidden track.
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus, मिला at the विला of tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman मोज़ेक of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), also ज्ञात by the रोमन नाम ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey.
Odysseus भी plays a कुंजी भूमिका in Homer 's Iliad and other works in that same Epic Cycle.
Husband of Penelope, father of Telemachus, and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके brilliance, छल, और versatility ( polytropos ), और is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning intelligence `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful सालो he took to वापसी घर बाद the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy.
erie is a Statutory Town in Boulder and Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado.
the जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 census is 18,135 and was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy access to I-70, Denver International विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोराडो 's entire Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 वर्गाकार मील, extending from the north side of State Highway 52 south to State Highway 7, and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver International Airport, 25 minutes to डेनवर और 20 मिनट्स इससे बोल्डर.
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and governing body of the Town of Erie और is जिम्मेदार लिये establishing कस्बा नीतियों और goals.
The Board has the authority to adopt laws, ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town, and by ordinance may डालें into अनुबंध or intergovernmental agreements to furnish, receive services or to provide for cooperative service delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the Town Administrator is the chief operating and प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर leadership in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board.
The mission of the Erie Police विभाग is to communicate और कार्य साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a safe environment, prevent crime and enforce the law, while protecting the rights of all.
Erie नगरपालिका विमानक्षेत्र ( eik ) is स्वामित्व and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the Denver-Boulder metropolitan area on Colorado Highway 7, a little over three miles west of Interstate 25.
The main रनवे is कंक्रीट paved and 4,700 feet long.
The is a home वीडियो खेल कंसोल उत्पादित by Sony Computer Entertainment.
It is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन 2, as part of the PlayStation series.
The PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh पीढी of वीडियो खेल consoles.
It was first released on नवम्बर 11, 2006, in Japan, with international markets following shortly thereafter.
The कंसोल थी पहला officially announced at E3 2005.
Originally set for a spring 2006 release date, it was delayed several times until finally hitting stores at the समाप्त of the year.
It was the first और फिलहाल तभी कंसोल to उपयोग blu-ray डिस्क as its primary storage medium.
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service, the PlayStation Network, and its connectivity with the PlayStation पोर्टेबल और प्लेस्टेशन वीटा, in सितंबर 2009 the अद्यतनीकृत PlayStation 3 Slim, was released.
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version, although it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 backwards compatibility ( removed on later original models ), but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 लाख प्लेस्टेशन 3s have been sold worldwide.
Its successor, PlayStation 4, is set लिये a q4 2013 रिलीज.
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11, 1904January 23, 1989 ), ज्ञात as साल्वाडोर dalí ( ), थी a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Spain.
Dalí was a skilled draftsman, best known लिये the striking और विचित्र images in his surrealist work.
His painterly कौशल हैं प्रायः attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters.
His best-known work, the हठ of मेमोरी, थी समाप्त in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive कलाकारी रंगमंडल included film, sculpture, and photography, in collaboration with a range of artists in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '', claiming कि उसके पूर्वजो यहूद descended from the Moors.
Dalí was highly imaginative, and also enjoyed indulging in असामान्य और वैभवशाली behavior.
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more attention than his artwork, to the dismay of those who held his कार्य in ऊँची esteem, और to the जलन of उसके critics.
पारस Plato by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture, using methods that are primarily analytical, critical, or सट्टे, और having a significant historical element, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The humanities include ancient and modern languages, literature, philosophy, religion, और विज़ुअल और performing कला ऐसे as म्यूज़िक और theatre.
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include history, anthropology, area studies, communication studies, सांस्कृतिक अध्ययन, विधि, अर्थशास्त्र और भाषाविज्ञान.
Scholars working in the मानवता हैं sometimes वर्णित as `` humanists ''.
However, that term also describes the philosophical position of मानवतावाद, जिससे कुछ `` antihumanist `` विद्वानों in the humanities reject.
Some secondary schools offer humanities classes, usually consisting of English literature, वैश्विक अध्ययन, और आर्ट.
Human disciplines like history, सांस्कृतिक मानवशास्त्र और मनोविश्लेषण पढ़ाई विषय matters to जिससे the प्रायोगिक method does not apply, and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research.
The 2005 Blue Room क्रिसमस Tree
The White House Christmas Tree, also known as the Blue Room Christmas Tree, is the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the White House.
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( वहीँ हैं varying दावा as to the सटीक साल ) और चूंकि 1961 the पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग मोटिफ at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the संघीय सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the संयुक्त राज्य in the अध्यक्ष और आरोप उसे साथ the निष्पादन of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, और to convene और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the संयुक्त राज्य, the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष और the संघीय government have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is अक्सर described as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally निर्वाचित संघीय अधिकारियों, the अन्य होने the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States.
The twenty-second amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or acting president, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On जनवरी 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve until January 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of जीवों that provide data for perception.
The senses and their operation, classification, and theory are overlapping topics studied by a variety of fields, most notably neuroscience, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक विज्ञान ), और दर्शनशास्त्र of perception.
The nervous system has a विशिष्ट संवेदी system or organ, dedicated to each sense.
Humans have a multitude of senses.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), hearing ( audioception ), taste ( gustaoception ), महकते ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the परंपरागत होश exists, सहित तापमान ( thermoception ), kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ), पीड़ा ( nociception ), संतुलन ( equilibrioception ), त्वरण ( kinesthesioception ), and various internal stimuli ( e.g. the different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ), only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a भाव is a पदार्थ of some debate, leading to difficulties in defining what exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to sense the संसार around उन्हें, साथ डिग्री of capability varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell, while some animals may lack एक or अधिक of the परंपरागत पाँच senses.
Some animals may also intake and interpret संवेदी stimuli in very different ways.
Some species of animals are able to sense the world in a way that humans can not, with some species able to sense विद्युत और चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड, and detect water pressure and currents.
मकड़ियों ( अनुक्रम araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among सब other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica, and have become established in nearly प्रत्येक आवास साथ the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata, the cephalothorax और उदर, और joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike कीट, spiders do not have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the mesothelae, मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of all arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages कि have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in size, shape and the amount of स्टिकी thread used.
It now appears कि the सर्पिल orb वेब may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म, और मकड़ियों that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True मकड़ियों have महरूम मिला in carboniferous rocks from, and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all other known species are predators, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large प्रजाति भी लो पक्षियों और lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing कंपन, लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their food by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders पहचानो themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species survive a few matings, limited mainly by उनके छोटी जीवन spans.
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care for their young, for example by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing खाना साथ उन्हें.
A minority of species are social, building सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social बर्ताव सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration, as in the विधवा spiders, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 सालो in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials, and spider रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to देखिए if ये can be used as silk factories.
As a result of उनके चौड़ी दायरा of व्यवहार, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Grey 's Anatomy is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न चिकित्सा नाटक कि premiered on the अमरीकी प्रसारण Company ( ABC ), as a mid-season replacement on March 27, 2005.
The series has aired nine seasons, और focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, who serves as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता, साथ साथ बेट्सी beers, Mark Gordon, Krista Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
The श्रेणी थी निर्मित to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind casting technique.
It is primarily फिल्माया in Los Angeles, California.
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen pompeo ), जो originally is स्वीकृत into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital.
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ), along with Dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ), dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R. Knight ), Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens ' departure, the hospital 's merger with Mercy West brings in dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( जेसी विलियम्स ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth season.
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens, Jr. ), who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( पैट्रिक डेम्पसे ), और बाद dr. ओवन हंट ( केविन McKidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season, and is replaced by Dr. Erica Hahn ( Brooke Smith ), who leaves the show during the पांचवां ऋतु, और बाद dr. टेडी altman ( किम raver ), जो प्रस्थान at the समाप्त of the आठवीं ऋतु.
introduced in the दूसरी ऋतु is dr. एडीसन Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ), who leaves the show at the end of the third season, in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि the latter मरता in the premiere of the ninth season.
Meredith 's half-sister, dr. lexie धूसर ( Chyler Leigh ), appears from season three and dies at the end of season eight.
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular status at the शुरूआत of the sixth season.
धूसर 's anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the key 18–49 demographic.
Previously among the overall top-ten रेटेड shows in the संयुक्त राज्य, धूसर 's Anatomy has been well received by critics.
Considered an impact on culture, the series has प्राप्त numerous पुरस्कार, और रै भी महरूम शामिल in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has produced several specials, as well as distributed all seasons to dvd, और released a collection of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue earning show, in terms of advertising per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the श्रेणी थी renewed for a ninth season, which premiered on September 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental विकार characterized by a विश्लेषण of thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations, paranoid or विचित्र delusions, or disorganized वाक and thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in यंग adulthood, with a global lifetime prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is based on observed behavior and the रोगी 's reported experiences.
Genetics, early environment, neurobiology, and psychological and social प्रक्रियाओं appear to be महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current research is focused on the role of neurobiology, हालांकि no सिंगल isolated organic cause has been found.
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a सिंगल विकार or a number of discrete syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the term from the यूनानी जड़ें skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to विभाजित '' ) और phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` mind '' ), schizophrenia does not imply a `` split personality '', or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception.
Rather, the पद अर्थात् a `` splitting of mental functions '', because of the symptomatic presentation of the illness.
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic दवा, जिससे primarily दबा dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
Psychotherapy and vocational and social पुनर्वास हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण in treatment.
In more serious cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, हालांकि hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect संज्ञान, लकिन it भी usually contributes to chronic problems with behavior and emotion.
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions, including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of पदार्थ use disorder is almost 50 %.
Social समस्याएं, ऐसे as long-term unemployment, poverty, and homelessness are common.
The average life expectancy of लोगों साथ the विकार is 12 to 15 सालो कम than those बगैर, the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ).
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) was the estranged husband और मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी stratten, whom he murdered before killing himself the same day.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an एपिक कविता इससे मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स material for a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, ज्ञात as the `` बूढ़ा babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` he who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of approximately two thirds of इस longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a दोस्ती between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man निर्मित by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they यात्रा to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the सांड of स्वर्ग, जिससे the देवी Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the देवताओं वाक्य enkidu to मौत.
The second half of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of eternal life, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
He learns कि `` The life that you are seeking you will never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to him मौत, लकिन जीवन वे retained in their own keeping. ''
This उद्धरण थी originally attributed to siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
nevertheless, gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया on बाद उसके मौत, because of his great building projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been translated into many different languages, और gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an सजीव जिनकी कोशिकाएं contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound structure कि सेट eukaryotic कोशिकाएं apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus, or nuclear envelope, within which the genetic material is carried.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their नाम, जिससे आता इससे the यूनानी ( eu, `` good '' ) and ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ).
Most eukaryotic कोशिकाएं भी contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All विशाल जटिल जीवों are eukaryotes, including animals, plants and fungi.
the समूह भी शामिल many unicellular organisms.
Cell division in eukaryotes is different from that in organisms without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated गुणसूत्रों, through movements directed by microtubules.
वहीँ हैं दो types of division processes.
in समसूत्रण, one cell divides to produce two genetically identical cells.
In meiosis, which is required in sexual reproduction, one diploid cell ( having two instances of each chromosome, one from each parent ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes, and then two stages of कोशिका प्रभाग, resulting in चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं ( gametes ).
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes, प्रत्येक a अद्वितीय मिक्सर of the सम्बन्धित pair of parental chromosomes.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, और so makes up one of the three domains of life.
The two other domains, जीवाणु और आर्किया, हैं prokaryotes और have none of the above features.
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a इंसान देह वहीँ हैं 10 टाइम्स अधिक microbes than इंसान cells.
However, due to their much larger size their सामूहिक विश्वव्यापी बायोमास is अनुमानित at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
They are considered to have first developed लगभग 1.6–2.1 अरब सालो ago.
The use of अंतरजाल सेवाएं or तन्त्र साथ अंतरजाल अभिगम to defraud victims or to otherwise take advantage of them, for example by stealing personal information, which can even lead to identity theft.
A very common रूप of अंतरजाल fraud is the distribution of rogue security software.
अंतरजाल सेवाएं can be प्रयुक्त to उपस्थित बेईमान solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct fraudulent transactions, or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme.
Internet धोखाधड़ी can occur in गपशप कक्ष, email, message boards, or on websites.
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security mission in Afghanistan that was established by the United Nations Security Council in December 2001 by रेज़ोल्यूशन 1386, as envisaged by the बॉन अनुबंध.
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National सुरक्षा शक्तियां ( ansf ) और assist अफगानिस्तान in पुनर्निर्माण key government institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding areas from the तालिबान, al qaeda और factional warlords, so as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai.
In October 2003, the UN Security Council प्राधिकृत the विस्तार of the isaf मिशन throughout Afghanistan, and ISAF subsequently expanded the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been involved in increasingly more intensive कॉम्बैट operations in southern and eastern Afghanistan.
Troop contributors include from the United States, संयुक्त किंगडम, नाटो member states and a number of other countries.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, with the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada sustaining the majority of हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन, साथ अन्य योगदानकर्ता sustaining significantly less.
As of early 2010, there were at least 700 military bases inside Afghanistan but more were अपेक्षित to be निर्मित in the coming सालो.
About 400 of ये were used by American‐led NATO forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( इन ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant.
The name comes from `` कोका '' और the alkaloid suffix -ine, forming cocaine.
It is a उत्तेजक, an appetite suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, कोका अधिनियमों as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of इसके प्रभाव on the mesolimbic reward pathway.
Unlike most अणुओं, कोका has pockets with both high hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency, violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to क्रॉस the blood–brain barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or distribute cocaine for non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned purposes in लगभग प्रत्येक देश.
Whole beef tri-tip rump, roasted medium rare
The tri-tip is a cut of beef from the bottom sirloin primal काटें.
It is a small triangular muscle, usually 1.5 to 2.5 lbs. ( 675 to 1,150g ) प्रति पक्ष of beef.
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris, भी पुकारा quadriceps extensor, a group of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella, or knee cap of the animal.
willmar is a नगर in, और the काउंटी seat of, Kandiyohi County, Minnesota, United States.
The population was 19,610 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal Service.
U.S. Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40 are चार of the प्रमुख रूट in the नगर.
The Speaker of the United राज्य हाउस of Representatives ( or Speaker of the House ) is the presiding officer of the chamber.
The office was established in 1789 by Article I, Section 2 of the United States Constitution, जिससे राज्य in भाग, `` the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि shall chuse their Speaker... ''
The वर्तमान स्पीकर is जॉन boehner, a Republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution does not require that the Speaker be a सदस्य of Congress, but no non-member has ever been elected to the office.
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of succession, after the Vice President and ahead of the अध्यक्ष प्रो tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike कुछ वेस्टमिंस्टर प्रणाली parliaments, in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the United States the Speaker of the House is a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda.
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates, instead delegating the ड्यूटी to सदस्यों of the हाउस इससे the majority party.
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political पार्टी, the स्पीकर भी performs administrative and procedural functions, and represents his or her Congressional district.
A bicycle frame is the main component of a bicycle, on to which wheels and अन्य components are fitted.
The modern and most common frame design for an upright सायकिल is आधारित on the safety bicycle, and consists of two triangles, a main triangle and a paired rear triangle.
This is ज्ञात as the diamond frame.
Frames are required to be strong, stiff and light, which they do by combining अलग सामग्री and shapes.
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' model assumes no घर्षण or एयर प्रतिरोध.
an exemplar एनिमेशन of a pendulum showing the velocity and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a वज़न निलंबित इससे a so that it can swing freely.
When a pendulum is displaced sideways इससे इसके resting संतुलन स्थिति, it is subject to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's mass कल्याणकारी it to oscillate परिचय the संतुलन स्थिति, सुहाने back and forth.
The समय लिये एक पूरा cycle, a left swing and a right swing, is called the period.
A pendulum swings with a specific काल जिससे depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping, and was the world 's सबसे सटीक timekeeping technology until the 1930s.
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks, and are used in वैज्ञानिक instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they were used as gravimeters to measure the acceleration of gravity in geophysical सर्वेक्षण, और भी as a standard of length.
The word 'pendulum ' is नई लैटिन, इससे the लैटिन pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple gravity लोलक is an idealized mathematical model of a pendulum.
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless cord suspended from a, बगैर घर्षण.
जब दिए an initial push, it will swing back and forth at a constant amplitude.
Real pendulums हैं विषय to friction and air drag, so the amplitude of their swings declines.
The First Battle of सांड चलाएं, भी ज्ञात as पहला manassas ( the नाम used by Confederate forces ), was fought on July 21, 1861, in Prince William County, Virginia, near the city of Manassas.
It was the पहला प्रमुख जमीन battle of the American Civil War.
Just months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter, the उत्तरी पब्लिक clamored लिये a march against the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the बराबर अनुभवहीन confederate Army of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction.
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was poorly executed by his officers and men ; nevertheless, the Confederates, who had been planning to attack the Union left पार्श्व, मिला themselves at an आरंभिक disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements under Brig. Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the shenandoah घाटी by रेलरोड and the course of the battle quickly changed.
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the Virginia Military Institute, Thomas J. Jackson, stood उनके मैदान और जैक्सन प्राप्त उसके प्रसिद्ध उपनाम, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The confederates तब शुभारम्भ a दमदार counterattack, और as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire, many panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and अनेक हताहत, और एहसास the युद्ध थी going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated.
अंधड़ निकट garajau, Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere, to the degree that it is hot or cold, wet or dry, calm or stormy, clear or cloudy.
Most weather phenomena occur in the क्षोभमण्डल, बस below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity, whereas climate is the term for the औसत वायुमंडलीय शर्तें over longer अवधि of समय.
When used without qualification, `` weather '' is समझा to be the मौसम of Earth.
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature and moisture ) differences between एक प्लेस और another.
These pressure and temperature differences can occur due to the sun angle at any particular स्पॉट, जिससे varies by अक्षांश इससे the tropics.
The strong तापमान कंट्रास्ट between ध्रुवीय और tropical air gives rise to the jet stream.
Weather systems in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, हैं caused by instabilities of the जेट stream flow.
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane, sunlight is incident at अलग कोण at different times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures प्रायः दायरा ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
Over thousands of years, changes in Earth 's orbit affect the राशि और वितरण of सौर उर्जा प्राप्त by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change.
Surface temperature differences in turn cause pressure मतभेद.
Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes due to मतभेद in compressional हीटिंग.
मौसम forecasting is the अनुप्रयोग of science and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small changes to one part of the प्रणाली can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole.
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human इतिहास, और वहीँ is evidence that human activity such as agriculture and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying how the weather works on अन्य planets has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth.
A famous landmark in the Solar System, Jupiter 's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at तनिक 300 सालो.
However, weather is not limited to ग्रहीय लाशें.
a स्टार 's किरीट is constantly being lost to space, creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
the गति of mass ejected from the Sun is known as the solar wind.
कैटी पेरी is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara, California.
She signed with कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड.
Perry has released three studio albums, including her डेब्यू ईसाई प्रयत्न Katy Hudson, One of the Boys, and Teenage Dream.
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive चार्ट कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू single `` I Kissed a Girl ``.
During her career, Perry has महरूम मनोनीत लिये numerous प्रमुख म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
The following is a सूची of sovereign राज्य और territories जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is an official language or language of government.
In 2012, there were 88 states in कुल ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states ).
In many देशों अंग्रेज़ी is the dominant language, but does not have official status.
In Australia, English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only language used in government संस्थानों, लकिन ऑस्ट्रेलिया does not have an official language.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States, though many states and regions भीतर the u.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an official language.
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official language of कनाडा ( साथ साथ फ्रेंच ), इण्डिया ( साथ साथ हिंदी और अनेक अन्य भाषाएं ), आयरलैंड ( along with Irish ), and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ).
English is the sole official language of the Commonwealth of Nations और the राष्ट्रमंडल खेल.
English is one of the official languages of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the European Union and the International Olympic Committee.
Many of ये देशों हैं वर्तमान or पूर्व colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see also British Empire ), or of the United States, itself a former colony of the UK.
Notable अपवाद शामिल रवांडा, जिससे थी a former Belgian colony and Eritrea, which was an Italian colony where the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's भाषाई picture is complex.
According to the Constitution of India, `` हिंदी in the देवनागरी स्क्रिप्ट '' is the आधिकारिक भाषा of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme Court decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament.
अंग्रेज़ी is प्रयुक्त almost exclusively for higher education, business and science.
Courses in majority of the schools are सिखाया exclusively in English.
English is extensively used for प्रशासनिक उद्देश्य in India.
India is the second-largest english-speaking देश in the संसार by number of speakers, after the United States.
As ऐसे, अनेक consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto official language of India.
See Official भाषाएं of India.
The linguistic makeup of Pakistan is similarly complex.
While the नेशनल भाषा is Urdu, English is an official language and used in business, government and law.
English is a अनिवार्य भाषा in schools.
All स्कूल पाठ्यक्रम हैं taught in English.
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking country in the world by population.
Southern Cone (, ) is a geographic प्रदेश रचित of the southernmost areas of South America, south of the Tropic of Capricorn.
Although geographically this शामिल दक्षिणी और भाग of southeast ( são Paulo ) of Brazil, in terms of political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, bounded on the north by the states of Brazil, पैराग्वे, बोलीविया और पेरू, on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर, and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the highest Human Development Index of Latin America, high Standard of living, significant participation in the global बाज़ार और the उभरते अर्थव्यवस्था of इसके सदस्यों मेक the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
For multi-event एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए track and Field Competitions, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings are sometimes held around conference tables.
In a meeting, two or more people come together to discuss एक or अधिक विषय, often in a formal setting.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes called a regulation game, is a game that has progressed beyond the पाइंट at जिससे it can be माना पूरा if जरुरी.
This is लगभग the halfway पाइंट of the game.
In the case of inclement weather, कोई खेल जिससे रै पहुँचे इस पाइंट may be रोका and shortened as needed, with the result being final, and all records and statistics counted.
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either considered a निलंबित खेल ( to be continued at a later date from the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed from the start.
( This depends on the नियम of each individual league. )
In either case, no statistics are counted until the game becomes आधिकारिक.
Since most professional बेसबॉल खेल हैं नौ पारी long, the पांचवां inning is used as the threshold for an official game.
If the visiting team is leading, or the game is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks इस पाइंट.
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the स्कोर, और theoretically होता नहीं need its half of the fifth inning, then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game.
The game is also considered official if the home team scores to take the lead in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning, since the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all cases, the `` official game '' status is used to determine whether a बरसात जाँच होगा be सम्मानित लिये fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but does not reach the पाइंट of बनने आधिकारिक, प्रशंसक हैं हकदार to a नई ticket for the make-up game or ( in most cases ) any other available game of their choice.
If a game is halted after it becomes official, the game is बस shortened और no बरसात जाँच is given.
The `` आधिकारिक खेल '' statistic प्राप्त कुछ ध्यान दौरान the 1995 ऋतु, जब Cal Ripken, Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive games played, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large numbers were hung on the side of the b & o गोदाम at Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a new number was unfurled during the पांचवां inning बाद प्रत्येक खेल था become आधिकारिक ( चूंकि the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ).
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003, Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005, and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official, the टोली होता unveil a नई ( निम्नतर ) क्रमांक प्रर्दशित the क्रमांक of खेल बाएँ to be निभाई in the stadium.
A telephone क्रमांक or फोन क्रमांक is a अनुक्रम of digits used to call from one telephone line to another in a public switched telephone network.
When telephone numbers were invented, they were short — as few as one, two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard ऑपरेटर.
As phone systems have grown and interconnected to encompass the world, telephone संख्याएँ have become longer.
In addition to telephones, they now access other devices, such as computers and फैक्स मशीने.
The number contains the सूचना necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the telephone call.
Each such endpoint must have a unique क्रमांक भीतर the public switched telephone network.
Most countries उपयोग फिक्स्ड लंबाई संख्याएँ ( लिये सामान्य लाइनों at least ) and therefore the number of endpoints determines the necessary length of the telephone number.
It is also possible लिये प्रत्येक सदस्य to have a set of shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used.
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers are automatically translated to unique टेलीफोन संख्याएँ पहले the कॉल can be कनेक्ट.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, और 1-1-2 होने the आपात सेवाएं संख्याएँ लिये चीन, जापानी, दक्षिण Korea, Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom, Ireland, South Africa, Poland, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Macao, Bahrain, Qatar, Bangladesh, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, respectively. )
Many प्रणालियों भी allow काल्स भीतर a लोकल area to be made without dialing the local area code.
For example, a phone number in North America will start with three numbers ( such as 661 ), which is the area code, followed by seven digits split into भाग of तीन और चार ( ऐसे as 550-1212 ), जिससे is the लोकल number.
Some areas अभी have अनिवार्य ten-digit dialing in place, even for local calls.
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions होने निजी intercom और सुरक्षित फोन संजाल ) हैं interconnected in the international telephone network, where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies कि the संपूर्ण क्रमांक चाहिए be 15 digits or shorter, and begin with a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an क्षेत्रफल कोड or नगर कोड और the subscriber number, which might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone number in writing or print, starting with a प्लस चिह्न ( `` + '' ) और the country code.
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone, the + must be replaced साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कॉल prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from.
Some mobile phones allow the + to be entered directly.
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are नियंत्रित by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's संबंधित सरकारी, either directly or by sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ).
Before a telephone call is connected, the टेलीफोन क्रमांक जरूर be dialed by the calling party or Caller.
The called party might have equipment that presents कॉलर id पहले the call is answered.
A collection agency is a business that pursues payments of debts owed by individuals or व्यवसायों.
Most collection agencies operate as agents of लेनदारों और collect debts for a fee or percentage of the total amount owed.
There are many types of collection agencies.
First-party agencies are oftentimes subsidiaries of the original company the debt is owed to.
Third-party agencies are separate companies contracted by a company to collect debts on their निमित्त लिये a fee.
Debt buyers purchase the debt at a percentage of its मान, तब attempt to collect it.
Each country has its own rules and regulations regarding them.
Cannabis flower साथ दृश्य trichomes
Cannabis, also ज्ञात as मारिजुआना ( इससे the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ), and by other names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
pharmacologically, the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the plant, including at least 84 other cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( cbg ).
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington Redskins, as well as its पूर्ववर्तियों the बोस्टन braves ( 1932 ) और Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football League ( NFL ).
the वॉशिंगटन redskins मताधिकार was originally founded in Boston, Massachusetts as the Boston Braves, named after the local baseball franchise.
The name was changed the following साल to the redskins.
In 1937, the मताधिकार स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks, two have been inducted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of कीर्ति : सैमी Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen.
Robert griffin iii 2012-present
Jason कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark burnell 2004-2007
चिह्नित Rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
Sammy Baugh 1937-1952
1st खास शक्तियां operational detachment-delta ( 1st sfod-d ), popularly known as Delta Force, is one of the United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units.
It was formerly सूचीबद्ध as the कॉम्बैट अनुप्रयोग समूह by the Department of Defense but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively supported by usasoc, it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command.
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart, the Naval Special Warfare Development Group, are the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य 's प्राथमिक counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, direct action, and national intervention operations, although it is an extremely versatile group सक्षम of conducting अनेक प्रकार of गुप्त मिशन, सहित, लकिन नहीं सीमित to, hostage rescues and raids.
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog ) प्रायः works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force.
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms ( or 'decays ' ) into an atom with a mass क्रमांक 4 less and atomic number 2 less.
अनेक अन्य types of decays are possible.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear क्षय or radioactivity, is the प्रक्रम by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing radiation.
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which includes the emission of energetic alpha अणु, बीटा अणु, और गामा किरणें — is माना radioactive.
There are many different types of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय ( देखिए table below ).
A decay, or loss of energy, results when an atom with one type of केंद्रक, पुकारा the जनक radionuclide, परिणत to an अणु साथ a केंद्रक in a different state, or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons.
Either of these उत्पाद is नामित the daughter nuclide.
In some decays the parent and daughter are different chemical elements, and यूँ the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in nuclear transmutation ( creation of an atom of a new element ).
The first decay processes to be discovered यहूद अल्फा क्षय, बीटा क्षय, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs जब the केंद्रक ejects an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ).
इस is the सबसे आम प्रक्रम of emitting nucleons, but in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ).
Beta decay occurs जब the केंद्रक emits an electron or positron and a type of neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, converting a प्रोटॉन into a न्यूट्रॉन ( इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर ).
All of these processes result in नाभिकीय transmutation.
By contrast, there exist radioactive क्षय प्रक्रियाओं कि do not result in transmutation.
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in gamma decay, or used to eject an कक्षीय इलेक्ट्रॉन by बातचीत साथ the उत्साहित केंद्रक in a प्रक्रम पुकारा आतंरिक conversion.
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, और इस results in a change in an element from one isotope to another.
One type of रेडियोसक्रिय decay results in products which are not defined, but appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
This क्षय is पुकारा spontaneous fission.
This decay happens when a large अस्थिर केंद्रक अनायास splits into two ( and occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei, and usually emits gamma rays, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the level of single atoms, in that, according to क्वांटम सिद्धान्त, it is नामुमकिन to predict when a particular atom will decay.
However, the chance that a दिए अणु होगा क्षय is constant over time.
For a large number of atoms, the decay rate for the collection is computable इससे the measured क्षय स्थिरांक of the न्यूक्लाइड ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent hair removal जिससे removes the hair from the root.
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed area for two to eight weeks, although some people will start to see regrowth in only a सप्ताह.
लगभग कोई क्षेत्रफल of the देह can be waxed, including eyebrows, face, bikini area, legs, arms, back, abdomen and feet.
There are many types of waxing उपयुक्त for removing unwanted hair.
Strip waxing is accomplished by spreading a wax thinly over the स्किन.
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed on the शीर्ष और ripped बंद the दिशा of hair growth.
This removes the मोम along with the hair.
Strip wax can also be made at घर using नीबू रस, water, sugar and honey.
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax ( as opposed to strip wax ).
In this case, the wax is applied somewhat thickly और साथ no cloth or paper strips.
The wax then hardens when it cools, यूँ allowing the आसान हटाना by a therapist without the aid of cloths.
This waxing method is very beneficial to लोगों जो have sensitive skin.
Wall painting ( 1st century AD ) from Pompeii depicting a multigenerational भोज
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year history of the civilization of Ancient Rome.
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic, later the Roman साम्राज्य, जिससे, at इसके शिखर, covered an क्षेत्रफल इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड and Morocco to the Euphrates.
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome, its famed seven hills, and its monumental structures ऐसे as the flavian amphitheatre ( अभी पुकारा the कोलोसियम ), the Forum of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The city also had several theaters, gymnasiums, and many taverns, baths, और brothels.
Throughout the territory अंतर्गत प्राचीन रोम 's कंट्रोल, residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country villas, and in the capital city of Rome, there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill, from which the word palace is derived.
the विशाल बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी जिया in the city center, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time, with a population that may well have exceeded one million people, with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable urban centers, with जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000 और अनेक सैन्य settlements, a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy, which had an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 %, the same rate of शहरी of इंग्लैण्ड in 1800.
Most रोमन कस्बों और शहरों था a फ़ोरम, temples and the same type of buildings, on a smaller scale, as found in Rome.
The विशाल शहरी जनसांख्यिकी जरूरी an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task, including acquiring, transporting, storing and distribution of food for Rome and other urban centers.
Italian farms supplied vegetables and फल, लकिन मछली और मांस were luxuries.
Aqueducts यहूद निर्मित to लाओ जल to urban centers and wine and oil were imported from Hispania, Gaul and Africa.
There was a very large amount of commerce between the प्रांतों of the रोमन Empire, since its transportation technology was very efficient.
The average costs of transport and the प्रौद्योगिकी यहूद comparable with 18th-century Europe.
The बाद नगर of रोम किया नहीं भरण the space within its ancient Aurelian walls until after 1870.
Eighty percent of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of प्राचीन Rome lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in cities and their estates were बाएँ in the परवाह of farm managers.
The plight of rural slaves was generally worse than their counterparts working in शहरी aristocratic households.
To stimulate a higher मजदूर उत्पादकता most landlords freed a large number of slaves and many received wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one small farm hut in Egypt, while छह परिवारों स्वामित्व a सिंगल ज़ैतून पेड़. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the जल्दी 2nd सदी, जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी stopped growing and started to decline.
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC, private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades विरूद्ध the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists.
By the समय of augustus, संस्कारी यूनानी household slaves taught the Roman young ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
Greek sculptures adorned hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in the villas, or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery books ascribed to apicius is essentially Greek.
रोमन लेखक disdained Latin for a cultured Greek style.
Only in विधि और शासन was the Italic nature of Rome 's accretive culture supreme.
Against इस इंसान background, both the urban and rural setting, one of history 's most influential civilizations took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today.
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर मनःस्थिति.
Glass bottles ( for खीरा स्लाइस ) on शिपिंग pallets
A सोवियत mayonnaise jar
A modern `` French kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float glass process, which produces sheet glass, and glassblowing जिससे produces बोतलों and other containers.
A season is a subdivision of the year, चिह्नित by changes in weather, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause पशु to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is true of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the सूर्य to be higher in the sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December, जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest महीने in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध.
in शीतोष्ण और subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists ज़्यादातर उपयोग a छह ऋतु मॉडल लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the शुष्क ऋतु, और in कुछ tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons, depicted in an ancient रोमन मोज़ेक इससे ट्यूनीशिया
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the बमबारी और आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter, निकट चार्ल्सटन, South Carolina, that started the American Civil War.
Following declarations of secession by seven Southern राज्य, दक्षिण कैरोलिना मांगे that the U.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, u.S. प्रमुख रॉबर्ट एंडरसन surreptitiously स्थानांतरित उसके small command from the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island to Fort Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
An attempt by U.S. President James बुकानन to reinforce और resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant ship Star of the West, failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9, 1861.
South Carolina authorities then seized all संघीय प्रॉपर्टी in the Charleston area, except for Fort Sumter.
During the early months of 1861, the situation around फोर्ट sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In March, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first general officer of the newly formed Confederate States of America, was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of बैटरी around चार्ल्सटन harbor aimed at Fort Sumter.
Conditions in the fort grew dire as the Union सैनिको rushed to complete the installation of additional guns.
एंडरसन थी छोटी of men, food, and supplies.
The resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the प्रशासन of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln.
He notified the Governor of South Carolina, Francis W. pickens, that he was sending supply ships, which resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
Major Anderson refused to आत्मसमर्पण.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12, the Confederates bombarded the fort from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the Union garrison returned fire, they were significantly outgunned और, बाद 34 घंटों, Major Anderson agreed to evacuate.
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this सगाई, हालांकि a गन विस्फोट दौरान the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies on April 14 caused two Union deaths.
Following the battle, there was widespread support from both North and South for further सैन्य कार्रवाई.
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the विद्रोह resulted in an अतिरिक्त चार दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य भी declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
The सिविल युद्ध had begun.
3G, short for third पीढी, is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology.
3G telecommunication संजाल support सेवाएं that provide an information transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, many services advertised as 3g provide उच्चतर गति than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service.
Recent 3G releases, प्रायः denoted 3.5g और 3.75g, भी provide मोबाईल broadband access of several Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop computers.
3G finds application in wireless voice telephony, mobile Internet access, fixed wireless अंतरजाल अभिगम, वीडियो काल्स और mobile TV.
`` mazel tov ! '' written on a wine glass tag
Traditionally, after the groom breaks the glass, the अतिथि चिल्लाओ `` mazel Tov ! ``.
a जन्मदिवस केक, आइस्ड with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is often done in Israel.
Here the phrase is written in यहूदी cursive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '', यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to express बधाई लिये a प्रसन्न और significant occasion or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ).
The infection is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis, जिससे is generally apparent बाद अनेक सालो.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis will go on to develop liver विफलता, जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood सम्पर्क संबद्ध with intravenous drug use, poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions.
An estimated 130–200 million people worldwide are संक्रमित with.
The existence of ( originally `` non- A non- B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s और सिद्ध in 1989.
only infects इंसानो और chimpanzees.
The वायरस persists in the liver in about 85 % of those infected.
This persistent infection can be treated with medication : the मानक चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon and ribavirin, with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of people treated are cured.
those जो develop cirrhosis or liver cancer may require a liver transplant.
is the leading cause of liver transplantation, हालांकि the virus usually recurs after transplantation.
No vaccine विरूद्ध is available.
A flexible spending account ( FSA ), also known as a flexible spending arrangement, is one of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते कि can be नियत up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States.
An FSA allows an employee to नियत aside a portion of आय to अदा for qualified expenses as established in the cafeteria plan, most commonly for medical expenses but often for dependent care or other expenses.
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into an FSA is not subject to payroll कर, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by the समाप्त of the योजना साल हैं खोया to the कर्मचारी, ज्ञात as the `` use it or lose it '' rule.
The सबसे आम प्रकार of लचीली बिता account, the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ), is similar to a health savings account ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ).
However, while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a उपभोक्ता चलित स्वास्थ्य परवाह योजना, चिकित्सा fsas are commonly offered with more traditional health plans as well.
In addition, funds in a health savings account are not lost when the योजना साल is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper forms or an FSA debit card, also known as a flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state स्तिथ in the southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive and the 17th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north, North Carolina to the ईस्ट, जॉर्जिया, अलबामा, and Mississippi to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern part of the राज्य, और the मिसिसिपी River forms the state 's western border.
Tennessee 's capital and second largest नगर is नैशविले, जिससे has a population of 609,644.
मेम्फिस is the राज्य 's largest city, with a population of 652,050.
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga Association, a 1772 frontier अनुबंध generally regarded as the पहला constitutional government west of the Appalachians.
What is now Tennessee was initially part of North कैरोलिना, और later part of the Southwest Territory.
Tennessee was admitted to the संघ as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. सिविल युद्ध in 1861, और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers for the confederate फौज than कोई अन्य राज्य, और अधिक सैनिको for the Union Army than any other Southern state.
In the 20th century, Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian economy to a more diversified अर्थव्यवस्था, aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of Oak Ridge was established to हाउस the मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट 's uranium enrichment facilities, helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb.
टेनेसी रै निभाई a नाजुक भूमिका in the development of many forms of American popular music, including rock and roll, blues, country, and rockabilly.
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the birthplace of the blues, with musicians such as w.c. सुलभ performing in इसके क्लब as जल्दी as 1909.
Memphis थी भी घर to सूर्य रिकॉर्ड, जहाँ संगीतकारों such as Elvis Presley, Isaac Hayes, Johnny Cash, Carl Perkins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Roy Orbison, and Charlie Rich began their recording careers, and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music genre and the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped make नैशविले the बीच of the देश म्यूज़िक रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग.
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis Rock N ' Soul Museum, the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय in Nashville, and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly Hall of Fame, an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in which Tennessee निभाई a निर्णायक भूमिका, is आधारित in नैशविले.
Tennessee 's major industries include agriculture, निर्माण, और पर्यटन.
Poultry, soybeans, and cattle are the state 's primary agricultural products, और प्रमुख निर्माण निर्यात शामिल chemicals, transportation equipment, and electrical equipment.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the nation 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य, और a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border.
Other major tourist attractions include the Tennessee Aquarium in Chattanooga, the Sunsphere in Knoxville, Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, the पार्थेनन, the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय, और ryman ऑडिटोरियम in नैशविले, और Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
One design रूपांतर of a मुर्गा ring.
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's penis, usually at the base, primarily to slow the प्रवाह of रक्त इससे the वीर्यपात penile ऊतक, यूँ maintaining an स्तंभन for a much longer period of time.
Cock rings can be worn around just the penis or both the penis and scrotum, or just the scrotum अलोन, हालांकि इस is प्रायः पुकारा a testicle कफ.
Rings can be made of a variety of different materials, most commonly leather, rubber, or silicone, though nylon and metal are also used either as the main component or part of the closure.
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym लिये a प्रिंस अल्बर्ट piercing, a piercing of the penis that is usually, though not always, a metal ring.
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction they are known by various names such as `` स्तंभन रिंग '' और `` टेंशन रिंग ''.
The headquarters of Major League Baseball at 245 Park एवेन्यू, midtown मैनहटन, New York City, USA.
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional बेसबॉल लीग, consisting of teams that play in the National League and the American League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball, after 100 सालो as पृथक विधिक entities.
MLB constitutes एक of the major professional sports leagues of the United States and Canada.
It is composed of 30 teams — 29 in the संयुक्त राज्य and one in Canada.
Teams in MLB खेल 162 खेल प्रत्येक ऋतु over six months ( April through September ).
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven-games चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी between the दो लीग champions जिससे dates to 1903.
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball लीग which operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs.
With the International Baseball Federation, the league also manages the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संसार बेसबॉल Classic tournament.
MLB has the highest ऋतु उपस्थिति of कोई खेल लीग in the world with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ on the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States.
it is bordered to the south and west by Maryland, to the northeast by New Jersey, and to the north by Pennsylvania.
The state takes इसके नाम इससे थामस वेस्ट, 3rd Baron De La Warr, an English nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial governor, after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest, the छठे तनिक populous, लकिन the छठे सबसे densely आबादी of the fifty United States.
डेलावेयर is विभाजित into three counties.
इससे उत्तर to south, these three counties are New Castle, Kent, and Sussex.
जबकि the दक्षिणी दो काउंटी have historically been predominantly agricultural, New Castle County has been more industrialized.
Before its तटरेखा थी छान by europeans in the 16th century, Delaware was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans, including the Lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at Zwaanendael, located near the उपस्थित कस्बा of lewes, in 1631.
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American क्रान्ति और on दिसम्बर 7, 1787, became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the United States, thereby becoming known as The First State.
Energy परिवर्तन in उर्जा प्रणालियों Language
Energy transformation or energy परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम of बदलना one form of energy to another.
In physics, the term energy describes the capacity to produce certain changes within a system, without लिहाज़ to सीमाएं in परिवर्तन imposed by Entropy.
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting energy from them, as energy is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
According to special आपेक्षिकता, परिवर्तन in the उर्जा of systems will also coincide with changes in the system 's mass, and the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy.
Energy in a system may be transformed so that it resides in a अलग राज्य, or a different type of energy.
Energy in many states may be used to do many किस्में of physical work.
Energy may be used in natural processes or machines, or else to provide some service to society ( such as heat, लाइट, or motion ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical energy in gasoline and oxygen into heat, जिससे is तब रूपांतरित into the propulsive उर्जा ( गतिज उर्जा that moves a vehicle ).
A solar cell converts solar radiation into विद्युत उर्जा कि can तब be प्रयुक्त to लाइट a बल्ब or power a computer.
The generic name for a device which converts energy from one form to another, is a ट्रान्सड्यूसर.
In general, most types of energy, save for thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to कोई अन्य दयालु of उर्जा.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, such as जब संभावित उर्जा is परिवर्तित to kinetic energy as an object falls in vacuum, or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to ऊष्मा may also occurs with nearly perfect efficiency ( many types of friction do this ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many available quantum states for a collection of particles, which हैं freely अनुमत to explore कोई राज्य of आवेग और स्थिति ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of energy distribution in such states, dictates that future राज्य of the प्रणाली जरूर be of at तनिक बराबर evenness in उर्जा distribution.
( There is no way, taking the universe as a whole, to collect उर्जा into fewer states, once it has spread to them ).
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of energy, since thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
Such energy is sometimes considered `` degraded energy, '' because it is नहीं entirely usable.
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, for this reason, thermal energy in a system may be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा साथ efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the एन्ट्रॉपी ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means, to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content.
Otherwise, only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus, useful work ), since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower temperature, in such a way that the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the एन्ट्रॉपी घटी संबद्ध साथ परिवर्तन of the बाकी of the heat into other types of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of जिससे सात हैं फिलहाल स्तिथ in कनाडा और 23 in the संयुक्त States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the संसार, और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, after the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती organization, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the लीग is अभी रचित of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred थी कनाडा, हालांकि the league has now been binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल a सैलरी cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
the एनएचएल draws अनेक अत्यधिक skilled खिलाड़ी from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल, over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
This is the complete list of the ratified and unratified amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the approval of the United States Congress.
twenty-seven amendments have महरूम ratified चूंकि the original signing of the Constitution, the first ten of which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights.
The procedure लिये amending the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution is governed by Article V of the original text.
There have महरूम अनेक अन्य प्रस्ताव लिये amendments to the United States Constitution introduced in Congress, but not submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can take effect, it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention ( known as an Article v सम्मेलन ) पुकारा by two-thirds of the राज्य, और ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
To date, no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the राज्य, और तभी once—in 1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of ratification been employed.
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research ) or वफ़ादारी निवेश is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय financial services corporation.
It is one of the largest परस्पर निधि and financial services groups in the world.
It was founded in 1946 and serves North अमरीकी investors.
Fidelity Ventures is इसके venture capital arm.
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ), was an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संबद्ध संस्थापित in 1969, serving most countries in the rest of the world.
In September 2011, FIL was rebranded as 'Fidelity विश्वव्यापी निवेश '.
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund distribution and investment सलाह services, as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement services, wealth management, securities execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.
June 2006 was the sixth month of that year.
it began on a गुरुवार और ended after 30 days on a Friday The following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of human society and इसके origins, विकास, संगठन, and institutions.
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical छानबीन और नाजुक विश्लेषण to develop a body of knowledge about human social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied directly to social policy और welfare, जबकि अन्य फ़ोकस primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of individual agency and बातचीत to the मैक्रो स्तर of प्रणालियों and the social structure.
The परंपरागत focuses of समाजशास्त्र include social stratification, social class, culture, race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, social mobility, religion, secularization, law, and deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency, sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further subjects, such as health, medical, military and penal institutions, the Internet, environmental sociology, राजनैतिक अर्थव्यवस्था और the भूमिका of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge.
The range of social scientific विधि रै भी विस्तारित.
Social शोधकर्ताओं चित्रण upon a किस्में of qualitative and quantitative techniques.
The भाषाई और सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
Conversely, recent decades have seen the rise of new analytically, mathematically and computationally rigorous techniques, such as agent-based मॉडलिंग और सोशल संजाल analysis.
Sociology should not be confused with various general social studies courses जिससे भालू छोटी संबंध to sociological theory or social science research methodology.
Thunder is the sound caused by बिजली.
Depending on the nature of the lightning and अलहदा of the श्रोता, थंडर can दायरा from a sharp, loud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in pressure और तापमान इससे बिजली produces rapid expansion of the air surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this विस्तार of एयर creates a सोनिक शॉक वेव, similar to a sonic boom, which produces the sound of thunder, often referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
The distance of the lightning can be calculated by the listener based on the समय अंतराल इससे जब the बिजली is seen to when the sound is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the द्वीप of majorca ( mallorca ) और पूंजी नगर of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de mallorca ( नगर of Majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used before the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca.
however, the official name was Mallorca, the same as the island.
It is situated on the दक्षिण coast of the island on the Bay of Palma.
As of the 2009 census, the population of the city of Palma उचित थी 401,270, and the population of the entire urban area was 517,285, ranking as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain.
Almost half of the total जनसांख्यिकी of majorca live in Palma.
The Cabrera Archipelago, though widely separated from Palma proper, is administratively माना part of the municipality.
Its airport, Son Sant जोन, serves over 22 million passengers each year.
The marivent राजमहल थी offered by the city to the then Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain.
The royals have चूंकि spent their summer holidays in Palma.
luthor redirects here.
For other uses, see Luther ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional अक्षर, a supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has also come into conflict साथ बैटमैन and other superheroes in the DC Universe.
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the character first appeared in कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स # 23 ( April 1940 ).
Luthor is described as `` a power-mad, evil scientist '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman, the foremost बाधा to achieving the विलेन 's megalomaniacal लक्ष्य.
Despite periodically wearing a संचालित बहि, Luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual identity.
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who, in the रग of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry.
In his earliest appearances, luthor is दिखाया with a full head of red hair.
Despite this, the character later became hairless as the परिणाम of an कलाकार 's गलती.
A 1960 स्टोरी by जेरी siegel विस्तारित upon luthor 's origin and motivations, revealing him to be a childhood friend of Superman 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited श्रेणी संकट on अनन्त earths, the अक्षर थी re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and white-collar criminal, even briefly serving as President of the United States.
In recent years, various लेखक have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The अक्षर थी क्रमित as the 8th महानतम विलेन by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list.
IGN 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time ranked Luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson, one of a few genre-crossing villains whose adventures take place `` in a world in which the ordinary कानून of प्रकृति हैं थोड़ा निलंबित '' ; वर्ण ऐसे as Professor Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, Doctor Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit this description.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the जन्मदिवस of रेव. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
It is observed on the तीसरा सोमवार of January each year, which is around the time of King 's birthday, January 15.
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act, though the act predated the establishment of मार्टिन लूथर किंग, jr. Day by 15 years.
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent activism in the civil अधिकारों गति, जिससे सफलतापूर्वक protested racial discrimination in federal and state law.
The campaign for a federal holiday in King 's honor began जल्द बाद उसके assassination in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, and it was पहला observed on जनवरी 20, 1986.
At first, some states resisted observing the holiday as such, giving it alternative names or combining it साथ अन्य छुट्टियाँ.
It was officially observed in all 50 states for the पहला समय in 2000.
The camera phone solution allows instant sharing of तस्वीरें.
As it 's automatic and instant, the user does not have to उपयोग a केबल or removable मीडिया to कनेक्ट to a निजी कंप्यूटर.
A camera phone is a mobile phone जिससे is समर्थ to कैप्चर स्टिल छायाचित्र ( and usually video ).
Since early in the 21st सदी the बहुमत of मोबाईल phones in use are camera phones.
Most camera phones are simpler than पृथक डिजिटल cameras.
Their usual फिक्स्ड फ़ोकस lenses और छोटी सेंसर limit their performance in poor lighting.
Lacking a physical shutter, most have a long शटर lag.
Flash, where उपस्थित, is प्रायः weak.
ऑप्टिकल जूम और tripod screws are rare.
Some also lack a USB connection, removable memory card, or अन्य रास्ता of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages, जिससे लागू सबसे acutely in कम लाइट शर्तें और in any case have not inhibited their widespread use.
Most model lines improve in ये regards every year or two.
Some, such as the Droid Incredible only have a मेनू चुनाव to प्रारंभ an अनुप्रयोग program to activate the camera.
Others, such as the BlackBerry Storm 2, Droid X, Motorola V980 and Nokia 5800 also have a पृथक कैमरा बटन लिये quickness और convenience.
Windows Phones can be configured to operate as a कैमरा even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in सुविधाएँ और चित्र विशेषता, और हैं ब्रांडेड as दोनो मोबाईल फोन and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
The principal advantages of camera फोन हैं लागत और compactness ; indeed for a user who carries a mobile phone anyway, the additional size and cost are negligible.
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile applications to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging and image stitching.
A few ऊँची समाप्त फोन can उपयोग उनके टच स्क्रीन to सीधा उनके कैमरा to फ़ोकस on a particular ऑब्जेक्ट in the फ़ील्ड of view, giving even an inexperienced user a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` Whatever happened to the man of कल ? '' is a 1986 comic book story featuring the DC Comics character of Superman.
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time, and soon to be retiring, Superman editor, Julius Schwartz, the story was प्रकाशित in दो भाग, शुरूआत in सुपरमैन # 423 और समाप्ति in Action Comics # 583, both published in September 1986.
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan, in his final major contribution to the Superman titles, and was inked by जार्ज pérez in the समस्या of सुपरमैन और कर्ट schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
The story was an imaginary tale जिससे बताई the फाइनल स्टोरी of the चांदी आयु सुपरमैन और his long history, which was being rebooted following the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths, before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history of the character and to serve as a complete निष्कर्ष to उसके mythology.
The story is a frame story set ten years after Superman was last seen, where Lois Lane recounts the tale of the end of Superman 's career to a रिपोर्टर इससे the रोज़ ग्रह.
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by उसके दुश्मनों, the पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन of उसके रहस्य पहचान of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him.
The story has been cited as one of the बेहतरीन कहानियां of the अक्षर of सुपरमैन, और आलोचकों and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published.
It is used as an example of how to बंद the long-time निरंतरता of a comic book character.
The story 's legacy has endured with similar stories written as tributes to it.
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of कल, और थी प्रयुक्त in the title of another Superman.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport संस्करण of the veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world, with a top speed of.
The original version रै a शीर्ष speed of.
It was नामित car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन car Driven All Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer थी hartmut warkuss, और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, with much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special variants have महरूम उत्पादित.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in ईसाई आर्ट, as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting.
`` At the Last Supper, on the night he was betrayed, our Savior instituted the eucharistic बलिदान of उसके देह and Blood. ''
( Catechism of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, and the bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ, Lord and God, a घोषणा प्रतिपादित by the परिषद of ट्रेंट साथ an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर to refer to the eucharistic species ( the Body and Blood of Christ ).
The following is a list of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the U.S. state of Louisiana.
A short story is a brief work of literature, प्रायः लिखा in narrative prose.
उभरते इससे पहले मौखिक storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named वर्ण, और focuses on a self-contained घटना with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood.
In so doing, short stories make use of plot, अनुनाद, और अन्य डायनेमिक components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel.
While the short story is largely पृथक इससे the अनोखा, लेखक of दोनो generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques.
Short stories have no नियत लंबाई.
In terms of word count there is no official demarcation between an anecdote, a short स्टोरी, और a अनोखा.
Rather, the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in which a दिए स्टोरी is उत्पादित और माना, so कि कया constitutes a short story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication, and the evolution of the form seems closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the प्रकाशन उद्योग और the सबमिशन दिशानिर्देश of its constituent houses.
The short story has been considered both an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works, और a crafted रूप in इसके अपना सही, एकत्रित साथ in किताबे of similar length, price, and distribution as novels.
Short story लेखक may define उनके works as part of the artistic and personal expression of the form.
They may also attempt to resist categorization by विधा and fixed form.
Area कोड in Michigan
Area code 810 is the telephone area code serving पूर्वी मिशिगन.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also known as the common raccoon, North American raccoon, northern raccoon and colloquially as coon, is a medium-sized mammal देशी to उत्तर America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family, having a body length of and a body weight of.
Its grayish coat mostly consists of dense underfur which insulates विरूद्ध ठंडा मौसम.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and इसके फेशियल मुखौटा, जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु in the mythology of several Native American tribes.
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence, with studies प्रर्दशित कि वे हैं समर्थ to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, जिससे is प्रायः nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests, but due to their adaptability they have विस्तारित उनके दायरा to mountainous क्षेत्रों, तटीय marshes, और शहरी क्षेत्रों, जहाँ कुछ homeowners consider them to be pests.
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century, raccoons are now also distributed across the यूरोपीय मेनलैंड, the काकेशस प्रदेश और जापानी.
Though previously thought to be एकान्त, वहीँ is अभी evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior.
Related females often share a common area, while unrelated males live together in groups of up to four animals to maintain their positions against foreign males दौरान the समागम ऋतु, और अन्य संभावित invaders.
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for females in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) लिये males in prairies.
After a gestation period of परिचय 65 दिनों, दो to पाँच यंग, known as `` kits '', are born in spring.
The kits are subsequently उठाया by उनके mother until dispersion in late fall.
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years, their औसत जीवन प्रत्याशा in the जंगली is तभी 1.8 to 3.1 सालो.
In many क्षेत्रों, शिकार and vehicular injury are the two most common causes of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic परिमाण 7.0 mw भूकंप, साथ an उपरिकेंद्र near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ), approximately west of Port-au-Prince, Haiti 's capital.
The भूकंप occurred at 16:53 local time ( 21:53 UTC ) on Tuesday, 12 January 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater had been recorded.
An estimated three million people यहूद प्रभावित by the quake.
The उच्चतम विश्वसनीय death count was estimated at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates were higher.
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 residences and 30,000 वाणिज्यिक इमारतें था collapsed or were severely damaged.
The earthquake caused major damage in Port-au-Prince, Jacmel और अन्य settlements in the region.
Many notable लैंडमार्क इमारतें यहूद significantly damaged or destroyed, including the Presidential Palace, the National Assembly building, the Port-au-Prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
Among those killed were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph Serge Miot, and विपक्ष नेता micha Gaillard.
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), located in the capital, collapsed, हत्या अनेक, सहित the Mission 's Chief, Hédi Annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid, pledging निधि और dispatching बचाव और चिकित्सा teams, engineers and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, land, and sea transport facilities, hospitals, and electrical networks had been damaged by the earthquake, which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; confusion over जो थी in चार्ज, एयर ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, और समस्याएं साथ prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were अभिभूत साथ tens of thousands of bodies.
These had to be दफ्न in द्रव्यमान क़ब्रों.
As rescues tailed off, supplies, चिकित्सा परवाह और sanitation became priorities.
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals from aid workers और survivors, और लूटने और विरल हिंसा were observed.
On 22 January the संयुक्त राष्ट्र विख्यात कि the आपात phase of the relief operation was drawing to a close, and on the following day the Haitian government officially called off the search for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse, originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स, और later in an American television situation comedy produced by Filmways that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS from October 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister Ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited लिये the संपूर्ण लंबाई of the श्रेणी ), और उसके मालिक, an eccentric और enormously klutzy, yet friendly, architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
Much of the कार्यक्रम 's ह्यूमर stemmed इससे the फैक्ट मिस्टर Ed would speak only to Wilbur, as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's character being a huge klutz और inadvertently causing harm to himself or others.
According to the दिखाएँ 's निर्माता, आर्थर lubin, यंग was chosen as the lead character because he `` just seemed like the sort of guy a horse would talk to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a तख्तापलट by persuading the स्क्रीन प्रतीक to guest star in one episode.
In the United States, reruns aired on उपनाम at नाइट इससे March 3, 1986, to February 1, 1993.
Sister station TV Land also reran the show from 1996–98 और again इससे 2003-06.
The series is currently broadcast every morning on This TV, साथ साथ राजमार्ग Patrol, and The Patty Duke Show.
It is also currently broadcast on hallmark फिल्म चैनल.
As of January 1, 2011, the पहला two seasons of the show are available on Hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, जब the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air ''.
The term `` Rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक two senses.
In the pre-tribulation दृश्य, a group of people will be left behind on earth after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the most common use of the term, विशेषकर among fundamentalist ईसाइयों और in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The other, older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the final resurrection generally, without a belief that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17.
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education, but might use the older and more सामान्य भाव of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection.
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it will occur in one event or two ), and various views regarding the गंतव्य of the aerial महफ़िल वर्णित in 1 thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as Roman catholics, परंपरागत ईसाइयों, लूथरन ईसाइयों, and Reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection, when Christ returns a single time.
They do नहीं मानना कि a समूह of लोगों is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth brethren, and popularized in the United States in the early 20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible.
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6, 1985 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर बास्केट खिलाड़ी साथ the Brooklyn Nets.
The Philistine cities of Gaza, Ashdod, ashkelon, ekron, and Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), Pleshet or Peleset, were a people who as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 bc ), सबसे संभवतः from the Aegean region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` philistine pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, Ekron and Gath, from Wadi Gaza in the south to the Yarqon River in the north, but with no fixed border to the east.
The Bible paints them as the Kingdom of इसराईल 's सबसे खतरनाक दुश्मन.
Originating somewhere in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th सदी bc, of जिससे the ईजियन तत्व थी नहीं अधिक than हाफ the total, and perhaps much less.
Nothing is known for certain about the original language or languages of the Philistines, however they यहूद नहीं भाग of the सामीती canaanite जनसांख्यिकी.
There is कुछ सीमित प्रमाण in पक्ष of the assumption that the Philistines were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
Philistine-related words found in the बाइबल हैं नहीं सामीती, और can in some cases, with reservations, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st मिलेनियम bce वे था अपनाया the सामान्य Canaanite language of the region.
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( asvab ) is a अनेक चुनाव परीक्षण, administered by the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य Entrance Processing Command, used to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States armed forces.
It is often offered to American high school students when they are in the 10th, 11th और 12th ग्रेड, हालांकि anyone eligible for enlistment may take it.
Although the test is administered by the military, it is not ( and never has been ) a requirement that a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole proprietorship, a business partnership, a corporation or other कारोबार संगठन, such as an LLC or an LLP.
Assets, liabilities and ownership equity are listed as of a specific date, ऐसे as the समाप्त of इसके वित्तीय year.
A balance चादर is प्रायः described as a `` snapshot of a company 's financial condition ''.
Of the four basic financial statements, the balance sheet is the only statement which applies to a single point in समय of a कारोबार ' calendar year.
A standard कम्पनी संतुलन चादर रै three parts : assets, liabilities and ownership equity.
The main categories of assets are प्रायः सूचीबद्ध पहला, and typically in order of liquidity.
Assets are followed by the देनदारी.
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as equity or the net assets or the net worth or capital of the company and according to the accounting equation, net worth must equal assets minus liabilities.
another रास्ता to dekh at the वही समीकरण is कि assets equals liabilities plus owner 's equity.
Looking at the equation in this way shows how assets were financed : either by उधार money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ).
Balance चादरें हैं प्रायः प्रस्तुत साथ assets in one section and liabilities and net worth in the other section with the two sections `` balancing. ''
A business ऑपरेटिंग entirely in नकदी can measure its profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at the end of the period, plus any cash in hand.
However, अनेक व्यवसायों are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment.
In other words : businesses have assets and so they can not, even if they want to, तत्काल फेरे ये into नकदी at the end of each period.
Often, these businesses owe money to suppliers and to tax authorities, and the proprietors do not withdraw all their original पूंजी और profits at the end of each period.
In other words व्यवसायों also have liabilities.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly known as the.17 hmr, is a rimfire राइफल कार्ट्रिज विकसित by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002.
It descended from the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 Magnum case to take a.17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) bullet, and it is more costly to shoot than परंपरागत.22 कैलिबर rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet, it can deliver muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
the schaumburg flyers were a professional baseball team based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the United States.
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North American League, which is not affiliated with Major लीग बेसबॉल, however, the टोली folded in March 2011, before they began play in the NAL.
From the 1999 ऋतु to the 2010 ऋतु, the Flyers played their home games at Alexian Field, near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly निभाई in थंडर Bay, Ontario, where they were known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks.
The team was originally a सदस्य of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010.
on जुलाई 27, 2009, the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II, which pitted the Flyers against the National Pro Fastpitch Softball Champions, the Chicago Bandits.
Played by official सॉफ्टबॉल नियम, the game was seen by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, and was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the flyers नियुक्त their first manager, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known for his playing दिनों साथ the शिकागो श्वेत sox, और पूर्व शिकागो शावक और श्वेत Sox player Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach.
During the early years of the franchise, Kittle did a series of TV commercials to promote the team, using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle. '' where he निभाई दोनो खुद और his `` Ma. ''
The विज्ञापन यहूद कामयाब at sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where Larry Johnson starred as दोनो खुद और `` gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, Kittle resigned इससे उसके managerial position, and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him.
In 2004, the flyers बना it to the Northern League Championship Series against the St. Paul Saints.
Despite leading the five-game series 2-1, Schaumburg आखिरकार lost the series.
In Game 5, Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas अनुमत a खेल जीतना ग्रैंड स्लैम by st. पॉल infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) लकिन never जीती the चैंपियनशिप.
Some famous players who played for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder ozzie canseco और पूर्व शिकागो Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an English film and थिएटर अभिनेत्री और पूर्व fashion model.
वाइज़ began her acting career at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in the early 1990s, then started working in television, appearing in Inspector Morse, the British mini-series Scarlet and Black, and the television film Advocates II.
वो बना उसके फिल्मी début in the फिल्मी मौत यंत्र ( 1994 ), but her breakthrough role came in the film Chain Reaction ( 1996 ), leading to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates, About a Boy, constantine, the फव्वारा and The Constant Gardener, for which she received an Academy Award, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle.
She has been labelled an `` English rose '' चूंकि उसके नाबालिग भूमिका in Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ).
Weisz also works in थिएटर.
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play Design for Living, which अर्जित उसके the लंदन आलोचकों वृत्त पुरस्कार for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly, पिछला गर्मियाँ, और उनके 2009 पुनरुद्धार of A Streetcar Named Desire.
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter play earned उसके the आलोचकों ' वृत्त थिएटर Award for Best Actress.
She has recently played Evanora in Oz the Great and शक्तिशाली.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन होता not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, और दोनो sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of अमेरिका.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
it is पकाया in a किस्में of methods, including by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, and may have a variety of other संघटक baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat आटा varies significantly इससे रेसिपी to रेसिपी, साथ some recipes having a majority of potato, and others having a majority of wheat flour.
Some recipes call for mashed आलू, with others calling for dehydrated potato flakes.
It is available as a commercial product in many countries, with similar variations in संघटक, कुकिंग विधि, और अन्य variables.
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by subtracting आठ घंटों from Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
The clock time in this zone is based on the mean सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न वेस्ट of the Greenwich Observatory.
During daylight saving time, its time offset is.
In the United States and Canada, this time zone is generically पुकारा प्रशांत Time ( PT ).
Specifically, it is Pacific Standard Time ( PST ) when observing standard समय ( शीत ), और प्रशांत daylight समय ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ).
Most of Canada uses daylight saving time.
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is known as the Northwest Zone, which is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city 's महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the largest in the zone.
The zone is एक घंटा ahead of the Alaska Time Zone, one hour behind the Mountain Time Zone and three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tape, or simply eight-track, is a चुम्बकीय टेप ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग प्रौद्योगिकी.
it थी लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s, but was relatively unknown in many European countries.
It was, however, बहुत लोकप्रिय in the United Kingdom during this period.
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear जेट निगम, साथ with Ampex, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Motorola, and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
It was a further development of the similar stereo-pak four-track कार्ट्रिज निर्मित by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz.
A later quadraphonic संस्करण of the स्वरूप थी घोषित by RCA in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ), referred to as रामेसेस the ग्रेट, थी the तीसरा Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
He is often regarded as the महानतम, सबसे मनाये, and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire.
His successors और बाद उन्होंने called him the `` Great Ancestor. ''
Ramesses II led several military expeditions into the levant, re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan.
He भी led रिझाने to the दक्षिण, into Nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
At age fourteen, Ramesses was appointed प्रिंस रीजेंट by his father Seti I.
He is believed to have taken the throne in उसके लेट किशोर और is ज्ञात to have ruled Egypt from 1279 BC to 1213 BC for 66 years and 2 months, according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records.
He was once said to have lived to be 99 years old, but it is more likely that he died in his 90th or 91st year.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists today believe, he would have assumed the throne on May 31, 1279 BC, based on his known accession तिथि of III Shemu day 27.
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after तीस सालो of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल, और तब every three years ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh.
On his death, he was दफ्न in a मकबरा in the Valley of the Kings ; his body was later moved to a royal cache where it was discovered in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
The early भाग of his reign was focused on building cities, temples and monuments.
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the Nile Delta as his new capital and प्रमुख आधार लिये उसके campaigns in Syria.
This city was built on the remains of the city of Avaris, the capital of the हिक्सोस जब वे took over, और थी the location of the main Temple of Set.
He is also known as Ozymandias in the यूनानी स्त्रोत, इससे a लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of a भाग of Ramesses 's throne name,, `` Ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
The Texas Rangers are a professional बेसबॉल टोली located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the पश्चिमी प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग Baseball 's American League.
Since, the रेंजरों have निभाई in रेंजरों ballpark in आर्लिंगटन in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's name is borrowed from the famous law प्रवर्तन agency of the same name.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington सीनेटरों, an विस्तार टोली awarded to वॉशिंगटन, d.C., बाद the नगर 's पहला ballclub, the असली Washington Senators, moved to Minnesota and became the Twins.
After the season, the new Senators moved to आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास, और debuted as the Rangers the following spring.
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason, सब following प्रभाग championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers उन्नत पास्ट the प्रभाग Series for the first time, defeating the Tampa Bay Rays.
Texas then brought home their first American League Pennant after beating the New York यांकीज़ in six games.
In the 2010 World Series, the मताधिकार 's पहला, the रेंजरों गिरी to the San Francisco Giants in five games.
Their lone victory made them the पहला टेक्सास टोली to जीत a संसार श्रेणी खेल, the ह्यूस्टन Astros having been swept in their 2005 World Series appearance.
They repeated as American League champions the following year, then lost the 2011 संसार श्रेणी to the st. लुई Cardinals in seven games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was a Roman general, statesman, Consul and notable लेखक of लैटिन गद्य.
He played a नाजुक भूमिका in the कार्यक्रम कि led to the निधन of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance that was to dominate Roman politics for several years.
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the रूढ़िवादी elite भीतर the Roman Senate, among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul, completed by 51 BC, extended Rome 's territory to the English Channel and the राइन.
Caesar became the first Roman general to cross both when he built a bridge across the राइन और conducted the पहला आक्रमण of Britain.
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey, who had realigned himself with the Senate after the मौत of crassus in 53 bc.
With the Gallic Wars concluded, the Senate ordered Caesar to lay down his military कमांड और वापसी to रोम.
Caesar refused, and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a legion, leaving उसके प्रांत और illegally entering Roman territory under arms.
Civil युद्ध resulted, इससे जिससे he emerged as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
After assuming control of सरकारी, सीज़र began a कार्यक्रम of सोशल and governmental reforms, including the creation of the Julian calendar.
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was eventually proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying राजनैतिक विरोध had not been resolved, and on the Ides of March ( 15 March ) 44 BC, Caesar was assassinated by a group of senators led by Marcus Junius Brutus.
A new series of civil wars broke out, and the constitutional government of the गणतंत्र थी never restored.
Caesar 's अपनाया वारिस octavian, later known as Augustus, rose to sole power, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his military campaigns, and इससे अन्य समकालीन स्त्रोत, mainly the letters and speeches of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of सीज़र by Suetonius and Plutarch are also major sources.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the greatest military कमांडरों of history.
Linguistic मैप of सीरियल, Cameroon, and Benin.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, बाहर the University of Lagos
वहीँ हैं hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The major languages are Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, ईदो, fulfulde, कनूरी, and Ibibio.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial language, was chosen to facilitate the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई एकता of the देश.
English, however, remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite, and is not widely spoken in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three major African languages families : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, और Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen tuum, जिससे may represent a relic of an भी वृहद diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
Daucus carota ( आम names शामिल जंगली गाजर, ( uk ) बर्ड 's घोंसला, बिशप 's lace, and Queen Anne 's lace ( North America ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native to temperate regions of Europe, southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia.
domesticated गाजर are cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district judges of the United States district courts.
All of these न्यायाधीशों वर्णित यूँ दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the President nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, और उनके शक्ति गर्भाशयी from Article I instead.
See Article I and आलेख iii tribunals.
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर, songwriter and actress.
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and more 20 million singles, bringing उसके total sales to over 40 million records around the world.
Furtado पहला gained कीर्ति साथ उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, Whoa, Nelly !
, which spawned two कामयाब singles, `` I 'm Like a Bird `` and `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno पुरस्कार लिये सिंगल of the साल और a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
In 2003, Furtado released Folklore, which produced three international singles— `` powerless ( कह कया तुम want ) ``, `` कोशिश `` और `` Força ``.
Three years later she released Loose, a worldwide वाणिज्यिक success.
The album शाखित चार number-one हिट्स : `` promiscuous ``, `` Maneater ``, `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) ``.
After a three-year break, she released her first full-length Spanish album, Mi Plan, and Furtado received a लैटिन ग्रैमी लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप Vocal Album.
In 2012, Furtado 's fourth English-language studio album, The Spirit अविनाशी थी released.
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous awards and accolades, including 2 Grammy Awards, 10 juno पुरस्कार, 3 muchmusic वीडियो पुरस्कार और a स्टार on कनाडा 's Walk of Fame.
Creatures of the Night is the tenth स्टुडियो एल्बम by Kiss.
It is the बैंड 's पिछला एल्बम लिये Casablanca Records, the only label the group had ever recorded for at that point.
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart, जो था died of cancer during the recording sessions.
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ), and its first एल्बम साथ vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( Vincent would later be credited, but not featured pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
Touch is a निर्णायक अर्थात् of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying सीढ़ियाँ लिये visually impaired people.
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the संवेदी modalities ऐसे as टच, तापमान, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia, skeletal muscles, bones and joints, internal organs, और the cardiovascular प्रणाली.
While touch is considered one of the पाँच परंपरागत senses, the impression of touch is formed from several modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial term `` touch '' is usually replaced साथ `` दैहिक होश '' to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved.
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses, with the understanding that somesthesis शामिल टच, proprioception और ( depending on उपयोग ) भी haptic बोध.
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors गुजरता via संवेदी nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex.
The cortical homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार गुजरता to an क्षेत्रफल in the दिमाग uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is called a homunculus and is अनिवार्य in the सृष्टि of a body image.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) मैप is not immutable, however.
Dramatic शिफ्ट can occur in response to stroke or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of परिचय 210 flowering संयंत्र प्रजाति in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae.
It is named after French वनस्पतिशास्त्री Pierre Magnol.
Magnolia is an प्राचीन genus.
Appearing before bees did, the flowers विकसित to प्रोत्साहित परागण by भृंग.
To avoid damage from pollinating beetles, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are अत्यधिक मुश्किल.
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million years ago, and of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago.
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud is enclosed in a bract rather than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and पुकारा tepals बल्कि than पृथक sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering संयंत्र lineage ऐसे as amborella और nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ).
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution, with a main centre in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America, Central America, the वेस्ट इंडीज, और कुछ प्रजाति in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the Guinness Book of World रिकॉर्ड, the संस्करण सुंग by bing crosby is the best-selling single of all time, with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.
Accounts vary as to when and जहाँ बर्लिन wrote the song.
One story is that he wrote it in 1940, in warm La Quinta, California, while staying at the La Quinta Hotel, a frequent Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer फ़्रैंक capra, हालांकि the एरिज़ोना Biltmore also claims the song was written there.
He often stayed up all night writing — he बताई उसके सचिव, `` पकड़ें अपना कलम and take down this song.
I just wrote the best song I 've ever written — हेक, i बस लिखा the बेहतरीन सोंग that anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in जिससे भागीदार propel themselves across snow-covered terrain using skis and poles.
The activity is popular in many places with large snowfields, primarily उत्तरी Europe, Canada, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family, which includes ski jumping, Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ), Biathlon ( स्कीइंग और राइफल marksmanship ) और ski-orienteering ( जिससे includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that सबसे resembles प्रागैतिहासिक skiing, particularly when done in the backcountry.
It is also related to telemark स्कीइंग.
A use tax in United States is पूरक to बिक्री tax which means, if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax to vendor, you owe use tax.
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the state where the उत्पाद यहूद खपत or सेवाएं यहूद rendered.
Use tax typically is a कर on खपत लकिन if तुम ख़रीदे an मद ( बगैर paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially, use tax applies to that location where goods were stored.
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some other location, you are required to अदा the differential of tax rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption.
This really means that you do n't have to pay दोनो बिक्री कर as खूब as Use Tax on one transaction.
It is only one or the other that you are required to अदा on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't चार्ज कोई बिक्री कर on इसके चालान तब it is the दायित्व of the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication.
Use Tax is generally चार्ज at the same tax rate of Sales Tax but in some states the tax rate is different.
Use tax is also termed as `` खपत कर '' or `` Consumer Use Tax ''.
A use tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United States by numerous राज्य सरकारें.
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing राज्य लिये उपयोग, भंडार, or खपत in कि राज्य ( नहीं लिये resale ), regardless of where the purchase took place.
If a resident of a state makes a purchase भीतर उसके घर राज्य, पूरा बिक्री कर is paid at the time of the transaction.
The use tax applies when a resident of the assessing state purchases an item that is not subject to his home state 's sales tax.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as खूब as ordering वस्तुएं through the mail, by phone, or over the Internet from other states.
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax that would have been owed ( if कोई ) था the वही goods महरूम खरीदा in the राज्य of निवास.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods and services, purchases non-exempt goods or services in नई हैम्पशायर लिये उपयोग, भंडार or अन्य खपत in मैसाचुसेट्स.
Under New Hampshire law, the New Hampshire vendor collects no sales taxes on the goods, but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the बिक्री दाम सीधे to the विभाग of आय in मैसाचुसेट्स as a use tax.
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase, whatever taxes were paid by the purchaser to that state can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग, भंडार or खपत in Massachusetts.
With few exceptions, no state 's vendors will charge the native राज्य 's बिक्री कर on goods shipped आउट of राज्य, अर्थ सब goods ordered from out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax.
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and pay the use tax to उसके घर राज्य on ये ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may make the use tax देय annually, लकिन कुछ राज्य आवश्यकता a monthly payment.
For example, where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use in the state, Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th दिन of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee, a 5 % penalty per month, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties.
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental agencies, purchases for resale in commerce, and purchases via `` कैज़ुअल बिक्री '' by individuals नहीं in the ordinary course of business.
Also नोट कि वहीँ हैं thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 मैसाचुसेट्स विधि requires भुगतान of कर on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the Internet for installation and use in Massachusetts, regardless of where it originates.
However, the वास्तविक उपयोग of the वही तन्त्र डाउनलोड by a Massachusetts resident to a server in another state remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, अरकंसास generally करता नहीं कर anything वितरित over the Internet ( such as downloaded software or music ), except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online, except `` custom तन्त्र लिये a particular ग्राहक '' जिससे is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग services '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most मामले, इस जटिलता is भाग of the underlying बिक्री कर कानून ; लकिन जबकि a brick-and-mortar स्टोर रै to सौदे साथ तभी the बिक्री कर कानून of its own location, remote sellers have to deal with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to every US state and locality that assesses them, if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( ph ) is an बढ़ाएँ of रक्त दबाव in the pulmonary artery, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries, together known as the lung vasculature, leading to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and other symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure.
it थी पहला पहचाना by Dr. Ernst von Romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent classification, it can be one of five different प्रकार : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or miscellaneous.
सही
सही
Sanuk, a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation, is a जूते ब्रांड आधारित in Southern California.
Sanuk, the Thai word for fun, was founded by Southern California native Jeff Kelley when he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
the पहला उत्पाद निर्मित was green carpeted and entitled the `` Fur Real '' after one shop owner asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real. ''
The फर रियल पहला became a runaway hit through boutique stores and not the intended surf shops.
The विलक्षणता अधिनियम थी followed up by a चन्दन लपेटा in wire mesh, a leopard print version, and styles made out of a poncho material in a variety of colors.
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men, women and youth और is वितरित आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य और in over 50 देशों throughout Europe, Asia, South America and Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle वकालत the स्लोगन, `` मुस्कान, Pass it on ! ``.
In computer विज्ञान, सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषाएं ( भी ज्ञात as vector or multidimensional languages ) generalize operations on scalars to apply transparently to vectors, matrices, and higher dimensional arrays.
Array programming primitives concisely express broad ideas about data manipulation.
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is नहीं uncommon to ढूँढें सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code.
APL, designed by Ken Iverson, was the first प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा to provide array programming capabilities.
The mnemonic apl refers to the शीर्षक of his seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and not to arrays per se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor and clarity was probably more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United राज्य an annuity अनुबंध is निर्मित जब an insured party, usually an individual, pays a life insurance company a single premium that will later be distributed back to the insured party over time.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time, such as via fixed payments, until the death of the person or व्यक्तियों नामित in the अनुबंध or जबतक a फाइनल तिथि, whichever comes first.
However, the majority of modern annuity customers use annuities only to accumulate निधि फ़्री of आय और पूंजी gains कर और to बाद लो lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
अध्यक्ष बराक Obama.
Barack Obama साथ उसके पहला परम् अदालत nominee, Sonia Sotomayor.
Following is a सूची of सब संयुक्त राज्य संघीय न्यायाधीशों appointed by President Barack Obama during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate, namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United राज्य, 35 न्यायाधीशों to the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations are फिलहाल प्रतीक्षारत Senate action.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and 22 additional federal न्यायपालिका vacancies कि हैं anticipated to occur पहले the समाप्त of ओबामा 's दूसरी term.
Obama has not made any recess appointments to the federal न्यायालयों.
Obama has made two nominations to the United राज्य अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय Trade, an Article III tribunal.
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United States Court of Federal Claims, an Article I court, to be Chief Judge of कि अदालत.
This is a सूची of airports in Mexico, sorted by location.
Mexico has about 1,834 एयरपोर्ट, रैंकिंग 2nd in क्रमांक of एयरपोर्ट in North America, and 3rd in the world.
Only major National and अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट हैं shown.
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a security, usually a bond, जारी by a u.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not guaranteed by the US सरकारी चूंकि the agencies are private entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan Marketing Association ( Sallie Mae ), Federal National Mortgage Association ( fannie mae ) और संघीय घर ऋण Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ).
Agency securities are usually exempt from राज्य और लोकल कर, but not federal tax.
Agency debt is भी पुकारा an agency security.
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, a खौलते water reactor.
The reactors are located inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the सामने of the कूलिंग मीनारें.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and USS Long Beach with USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members are spelling out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र e = mc2 on the flight deck.
The Russian nuclear-powered icebreaker NS Yamal on a 1994 संयुक्त expedition with the NSF.
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nuclear fission to generate ऊष्मा and electricity.
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the संसार 's energy and 13 % of the world 's electricity, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report that there are 437 operational नाभिकीय शक्ति रिएक्टरों ( हालांकि not all are producing electricity ), in 31 countries.
In addition, there are approximately 140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation, powered by some 180 रिएक्टरों.
There is an जारी बहस about the use of nuclear energy.
Proponents, such as the World Nuclear Association, the IAEA and Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy contend that nuclear शक्ति is a चिरस्थायी उर्जा सोर्स कि reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as Greenpeace International and NIRS, believe that nuclear power मुद्राएँ अनेक खतरे to लोगों और the environment.
Nuclear power plant दुर्घटनाओं शामिल the chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ), फुकुशिमा daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ), and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
There have also महरूम कुछ nuclear-powered submarine mishaps.
Research into safety improvements is continuing and nuclear fusion, believed to be safer, may be प्रयुक्त in the भविष्य.
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, worldwide there were 68 civil nuclear power reactors under निर्माण in 15 देशों.
In the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have been extended to 60 सालो, और योजनाएँ to निर्माण another दर्जन are under serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear विपत्ति prompted a rethink of nuclear energy policy in many countries.
Germany decided to close all इसके रिएक्टरों by 2022, और Italy has banned nuclear power.
Following Fukushima, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035.
फोटोग्राफ of the Berlin Wall taken from the West side.
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent East Germans from fleeing इससे साम्यवादी.
It was an iconic symbol of the ठंडा युद्ध और इसके पतन in 1989 marked the end of the War.
The Cold War, often dated from 1947 to 1991, was a sustained state of political and military tension between powers in the Western Bloc, dominated by the United राज्य साथ नाटो among इसके allies, and powers in the Eastern Bloc, dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact.
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi Germany, leaving the USSR and the US as two superpowers साथ profound आर्थिक और राजनैतिक मतभेद.
A neutral faction arose with the non-aligned गति संस्थापित by मिश्र, इण्डिया, and Yugoslavia ; this faction rejected association with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East.
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured विनाश —never मिले in सीधा सैन्य combat.
Instead, in their struggle for global influence they engaged in ongoing मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और in नियमित अप्रत्यक्ष confrontations through proxy wars.
Cycles of relative calm would be followed by ऊँची tension, which could have led to world war.
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ), the बर्लिन संकट of 1961, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट ( 1962 ), the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ), the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through सैन्य coalitions, रणनीतिक conventional फ़ोर्स deployments, extensive सहायता to क्लाएंट राज्य, espionage, विशाल प्रचार campaigns, conventional and nuclear arms races, appeals to neutral nations, rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ), and technological competitions such as the Space Race.
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in the Third World countries of लैटिन अमेरिका, अफ़्रीकी, the मध्य ईस्ट, और southeast Asia.
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war, both sides sought राहत of राजनैतिक तनाव through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased राजनयिक, सैन्य, और आर्थिक pressures on the Soviet Union, at a time when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the नई सोवियत अध्यक्ष मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national independence grew stronger in पूर्वी Europe, especially Poland.
They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to support the faltering सरकारी of ईस्ट Germany in late 1989.
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( वहीँ थी कुछ हिंसा in रोमानिया ).
The pressures escalated अंदर the सोवियत संघ, जहाँ साम्यवादी fell and the USSR was formally dissolved in late 1991.
The United States remained as the world 's तभी महाशक्ति.
The Cold War and its events have left a significant legacy, and it is प्रायः referred to in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, विशेषकर in मीडिया featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
pikes शिखर राज्य पार्क is a state park of Iowa, USA, featuring a bluff overlooking the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River.
The park is संचालित by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
It is nearly a thousand acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The nearest city is मैकग्रेगर, आयोवा.
Iowa राजमार्ग 76 लगभग defines its northern boundary.
It gets its नाम इससे the आयोवा अवतार of pikes शिखर, a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper Mississippi, and like Pikes Peak in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
There हैं चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds and RV facilities.
Mountain bikes are permitted in निश्चित portions of the park.
Aside from recreational development, the land in the park was never साफ और to a विशाल extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement.
It is part of a larger complex of पार्क, reserves और refuges जिससे शामिल पुतला mounds नेशनल स्मारक, the विभिन्न components of the पीला नदी राज्य वन, the विशाल Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller, much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge.
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing development, and will connect तत्व of ये sites.
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk बैंड आधारित in Atlanta, Georgia.
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle, vocals ), John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar, vocals ), Coy Bowles ( guitar, keyboards ), Chris fryar ( ड्रम ), मिट्टी कुक ( गिटार, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
The band has toured throughout the United States, including a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have also recorded five studio albums, and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken fried ``, `` toes ``, `` राजमार्ग 20 सवारी ``, `` फ़्री ``, `` as She 's Walking Away ``, `` Colder Weather ``, `` Knee Deep ``, `` Keep Me In Mind ``, and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
Talk radio is a radio format containing चर्चा परिचय topical मुद्दे.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a सिंगल व्यक्तिगत, और often feature interviews with a number of different guests.
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation, usually by broadcasting live conversations between the मेजबान और श्रोता जो `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show.
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience interest and, in the मामला of वाणिज्यिक बात radio, attract advertisers.
Generally, the shows are organized into खण्ड, प्रत्येक separated by a pause for advertisements ; however, in public or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes played in place of commercials to separate the program segments.
Variations of talk radio शामिल रूढ़िवादी बात, hot talk, liberal talk and sports talk.
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM, starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये internet-based talk-radio shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts.
Now, it is संभावित लिये an व्यक्तिगत to उपयोग a किस्में of services to host an Internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a traditional radio station.
In addition TV प्रोग्रामिंग इससे बात and news outlets such as BBC, CNN, Bloomberg and Fox are now often available expanding the world of talk radio further.
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios, but a चौड़ी किस्में of अन्य डिवाइस और सेवाएं सहित PCs using iTunes, station directories such as Tunein, show directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla fabricius, 1787
hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz, 1892 )
Hippa alcimede ( de man, 1902 )
hippa australis Hale, 1927
hippa carcineutes Holthuis & Manning, 1970
hippa celaeno ( de Man, 1896 )
hippa granulatus ( Borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( दाना, 1852 )
hippa इंडिका Haig, Murugan & Balakrishnan Nair, 1986
hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( Heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( Stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( Miers, 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita, and species have often been transferred between the two genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially ज्ञात as the खास पूंजी Region of Jakarta ( ), is the capital and largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the northwest coast of Java, Jakarta is the country 's economic, cultural and political centre, and with a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011, it is the most populous नगर in इंडोनेशिया और in southeast Asia, and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official महानगर क्षेत्रफल, ज्ञात as jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, Depok, Tangerang and Bekasi ), is the second largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 Globalization and World Cities Study Group and Network ( GaWC ) शोध.
and रै an क्षेत्रफल of.
This area has population of well over 28 million, बनाना it एक of the संसार 's largest conurbations in terms of number of inhabitants.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the world 's 200 largest शहरों, a जम्प इससे its 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown अधिक rapidly than Kuala Lumpur, Beijing and Bangkok.
Established in the fourth century, the city became an important trading बंदरगाहों लिये the किंगडम of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it थी ज्ञात as batavia ) और रै जारी as the capital of Indonesia since the country 's independence was declared in 1945.
The city is the seat of the आसियान सचिवालय.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport, and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways, and परोसा by अनेक बस लाइनों कार्यशील on reserved busways.
A typical home air कंडीशनिंग window unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the properties of एयर ( primarily temperature and humidity ) to more favourable conditions.
More generally, air conditioning can refer to any form of technological cooling, heating, वेंटिलेशन, or कीटाणुशोधन कि modifies the कंडीशन of air.
An air कंडीशनर ( प्रायः referred to as एयर कॉन, ac or a/c, और नहीं to be उलझन साथ the संक्षिप्त लिये प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान ) is a major or home appliance, system, or mechanism designed to change the air temperature and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle, but sometimes evaporation is used, commonly for comfort cooling in इमारतें और मोटर vehicles.
In construction, a पूरा प्रणाली of हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by अमरीकी rapper लील वेन featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is लिया इससे उसके नवीं studio album, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on iTunes on December 16, 2010.
It was produced by `` A Milli `` निर्माता बांग्लादेश.
The song samples `` day-o ( the Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte.
DC Talk ( styled as dc Talk ), is a Grammy -winning ईसाई रैप तिकड़ी.
The group was formed in Lynchburg, Virginia in 1987 by Toby McKeehan, Michael Tait, and Kevin Max स्मिथ.
They have released पाँच प्रमुख स्टुडियो एल्बम साथ : DC Talk ( 1989 ), Nu Thang ( 1990 ), Free at Last ( 1992 ), Jesus Freak ( 1995 ), and Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of समकालीन ईसाई म्यूज़िक पुकारा dc बात `` the सबसे popular overtly Christian act of all time. ''
In 2000, the समूह released an EP titled Solo which contained two solo songs from each member.
Since that time, DC Talk has been on an indefinite अंतराल, and the three band members have each led solo careers.
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times during the 2000s, although the group never officially reunited or disbanded.
The group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout उनके career.
Their first two releases, DC बात और nu थांग, were of the hip hop genre.
DC Talk 's third album, Free at पिछला, भी मुख्यतः took influence from the hip hop style, although their music began taking on a rock sound.
The trio 's last two albums, Jesus Freak and Supernatural, were predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at different टाइम्स और बाद समवेत into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of ये books have been divided into chapters, generally a page or so in length, since the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th century, each chapter has been further विभाजित into `` आयतें '' of a few short lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the case of, and sometimes there is अधिक than एक वाक्य in a single verse, as in the case of.
As the chapter और श्लोक विभाजन यहूद नहीं भाग of the original texts, they form part of the paratext of the Bible.
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at various अंक इससे those used by Christians.
For instance, in यहूदी परंपरा, the ascriptions to अनेक ज़बूर हैं regarded as स्वतंत्र verses, making 116 more verses, whereas the established Christian practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places, e.g. in Hebrew bibles is गिने as in Christian translations.
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a सूची of शब्द or वाक्यांश ( 'headings ' ) और associated pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will include names of people, places and events, and concepts selected by a व्यक्ति as होने प्रासंगिक और of ब्याज to a संभावित reader of the book.
The pointers are typically page numbers, paragraph numbers or खण्ड numbers.
In a library catalog the words are authors, titles, विषय headings, etc., और the pointers are call numbers.
Internet search engines, such as Google, और पूरा टेक्स्ट searching help provide access to information but are not as selective as an index, as they provide non-relevant links, and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect.
In United States financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes Enforcement संजाल ( fincen ), an एजेंसी of the United States Department of the Treasury, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा, जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various other universities पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता of the site.
Users must register पहले using the साईट, बाद which they may create a personal profile, add other users as friends, and exchange messages, including automatic notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, school or college, or other विशेषताएँ, और categorize उनके मित्रों into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of September 2012, फेसबुक has over one billion active users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there are 7.5 million children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते and 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
in may 2005, accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of समय खोया और encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates फेसबुक रै 138.9 million monthly unique U.S. visitors in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions, with the site losing 7 million क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on फ़रवरी 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
फेसबुक inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
Sulfonamide functional समूह
Hydrochlorothiazide is a सल्फोनेमाइड और a thiazide.
furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड, but not a thiazide.
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
Some sulfonamides हैं भी devoid of antibacterial activity, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are newer drug समूह आधारित on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies are common, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is महत्वपूर्ण to मेक a भेद between sulfa दवाएँ और अन्य sulfur-containing drugs and additives, such as sulfates and sulfites, which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group, and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides.
This is a list of characters इससे जार्ज Lopez.
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये उनके मांस, अंडे, और bas feathers चूंकि ancient times.
30 Seconds to Mars is an अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड from Los Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, rhythm guitar, songwriter ), Shannon Leto ( drums, percussion ) और tomo miličević ( सीसे गिटार, keyboards ).
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007, Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the group, performing live only with both Jared and miličević रिकॉर्डिंग बास लिये स्टुडियो रिकार्डिंग, जबकि braxton olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
Previously, the group also featured guitarists Solon Bixler ( now of Great Northern ) और Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ).
To date, 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ), A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ), This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), to the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive metal and post-grunge, but they have also included emo, screamo, स्पेस चट्टान और synthrock into उनके music.
They have been compared to Pink floyd ( जो यहूद an influence on उनके कार्य ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics, concept albums and their use of experimental music.
A Christmas Story is a 1983 American क्रिसमस कॉमेडी फिल्मी आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur जां गड़रिये, based on his book In God We Trust, All Others Pay Cash, with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories.
It was निर्देशित by bob Clark.
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous टाइम्स on टेलीविज़न दौरान the Christmas season on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस for being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A Joe 's Crab Shack branch in San डिएगो, CA.
The building was initially a rowing club and was later परिवर्तित into the रेस्तरां.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American chain of beach-themed seafood casual dining रेस्तरां स्वामित्व by ignite रेस्तरां Group.
Founded in Houston, Texas, the restaurant now operates स्थितियाँ all across the United States of America.
It serves seafood and American cuisine.
The restaurants also have a gift shop that sells facetious t-shirts featuring वाक्यांश विज्ञापन Joe 's seafood choices.
It is based in ह्यूस्टन, Texas.
New York City Cruise Liner टर्मिनल in नरक 's Kitchen at 52nd Street.
The New यॉर्क यात्री जलयान टर्मिनल ( भी known as the Luxury Liner Row or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of उत्तर नदी पियर 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West 46th and West 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier numbers in Manhattan can be संकल्पित by adding 40 to the सम्बन्धित cross-street. )
Ships now डॉक at Piers 88, 90 and 92.
Pier 94 on the north side is now प्रयुक्त लिये प्रदर्शनी space.
Pier 86, once used by United States Lines, is अभी घर to the USS Intrepid.
In 2003, the terminal handled 900,000 passengers.
The city is forecasting कि 1.5 million will use the terminal by 2017.
The पियर हैं long and apart.
They were पहला समाप्त in 1935 to बदलें the चेल्सी Piers as the city 's luxury liner terminal.
The नई टर्मिनल थी निर्मित to handle bigger ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 and are currently undergoing another $ 150 लाख नवीकरण.
The renovated plans call for it to handle तीन विशाल जहाजों at a time.
In doing renovations, the city is also considering decommissioning Pier 92.
Logo of the New York क्रूज terminal.for
decades the टर्मिनल थी the तभी ocean-going यात्री टर्मिनल in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time, two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in bayonne, नई जर्सी ( प्रयुक्त by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ), and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to नीचे वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब the टर्मिनल थी निर्मित जमीन had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers.
The US Army Corps of Engineers, who control the waterfront dimension, would not extend the pierhead line farther into the river, so the city extended the pier by कटिंग दूर at the land.
The city earlier did this for the Chelsea Piers ; however in चेल्सी तभी लैंडफिल was taken away.
At the Passenger टर्मिनल वास्तविक Manhattan schist was taken away.
इससे डाउनस्ट्रीम in the नदी
Many major passenger ships have docked there, including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and Freedom of the Seas, before the Brooklyn and bayonne terminals opened.
The SS Normandie caught आग and subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth during World War II.
The Normandie, renamed uss lafayette, झूठ capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian क्रूज लकीर 's जल्द to be नवीनतम ship the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and उन्नयन the क्रूज टर्मिनल to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the regular, recurring, and other वर्ण of the tv श्रेणी NCIS.
Christian right is a पद प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by their strong support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the शिक्षाओं of christianity to राजनीती और पब्लिक नीति by proclaiming the value of those teachings and/or by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and public policy.
In the U.S., the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a core of evangelical Protestants that draws `` support from politically conservative catholics, यहूदियों, mormons, and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals.
The movement has its roots in American politics going back as far the 1940s and has महरूम विशेषकर influential चूंकि the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, from grassroots activism as well as their focus on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially रूढ़िवादी स्थितियाँ on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ, स्टेम कोशिका शोध, homosexuality, contraception, abortion, and pornography.
Although the ईसाई सही is प्रायः संबद्ध साथ the u.S., the movement has been a key factor in the politics of Canada, The Netherlands, Northern Ireland and Australia, among others.
Far East गति ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated FM ) is an American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ), Prohgress ( James Roh ), J-Splif ( jae choung ), और dj virman ( virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the Hollywood movie, The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift, और इसके subsequent soundtrack, video game and DVD.
Since `` Round गोलाकार '', the समूह रै महरूम featured on various network shows including,, Entourage, Gossip Girl, and Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` जैसे a g6 `` hit क्रमांक एक on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart and on iTunes as well in late October 2010.
Far East Movement also has the भेद of होने the पहला asian-american समूह to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States.
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5 volt button cell, commonly used in छोटी led flashlights, डिजिटल thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
LR44 क्षारीय cell
the बैटरी नामकरण is पारिभाषित by the International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries, part 3 Watch batteries ).
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative एलेक्ट्रोड, मैंगनीज dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a गोलाकार कोशिका 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their own part numbers for IEC type LR44 बैटरी including:
LR44, LR44G, lr44gd, LR44H
LR1154, L1154, L1154C, L1154F, l1154g, l1154h
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166a
AG13, A613, AG14, ag-14, G13A, G13-A
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, GP76A, GPA7, GPA75, gpa76, gps76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, CA18, CA19, cr44, d76a, ka, ka76, ms76h, px76a, PX675A, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, c, aa, AAA, AAAA, A23, 9-volt, CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries हैं or यहूद बना in the R44 size.
Formerly, mercury batteries were made as button cells ( प्रकार MR44 and NR44 ).
Zinc-air बैटरी type PR44 require air to work.
silver-oxide बैटरी प्रकार sr44 may provide extra capacity compared to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics.
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide बैटरी may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's numbers for silver oxide R44 आकार कोशिकाएं include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( energizer )
303/357 ( d357h )
Hurricane कैटरीना थी the deadliest and most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
It was the costliest natural disaster, as well as one of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the इतिहास of the संयुक्त States.
Among recorded Atlantic hurricanes, it थी the sixth strongest overall.
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane और subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane चूंकि the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23, 2005 and crossed southern फ्लोरिडा as a मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane, causing कुछ मौतों और बाढ़ there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a श्रेणी 5 hurricane over the गरम गल्फ जल, लकिन weakened before making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
it caused कठोर destruction along the Gulf coast from central Florida to Texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant number of deaths occurred in New Orleans, Louisiana, which flooded as the levee प्रणाली catastrophically विफल, in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, और the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
However, the worst property damage occurred in coastal क्षेत्रों, ऐसे as सब मिसिसिपी beachfront towns, which were flooded over 90 % in hours, as boats and casino barges rammed buildings, pushing cars and houses inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
The hurricane surge protection failures in New ऑरलियन्स हैं माना the worst सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास and prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge Stanwood Duval, U.S. District Court, but the federal agency could not be आयोजित financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal, state and local governments, resulting in the इस्तीफा of संघीय आपात प्रबन्धन एजेंसी ( fema ) निदेशक माइकल D. भूरा, और of नई ऑरलियन्स पुलिस Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass.
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( uscg ), नेशनल hurricane बीच ( nhc ), और नेशनल Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions.
They provided सटीक hurricane मौसम tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time.
Even the most insistent appeals from national, state and local public officials to residents to evacuate before the storm did नहीं warn कि the levees could उल्लंघन और असफल.
u.S. कर्ज़ इससे 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' and black lines indicate the कुल नेशनल कर्ज़ or सकल पब्लिक कर्ज़.
The difference is the `` intragovernmental कर्ज़, '' जिससे includes obligations to government programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a formula, National Debt = Debt आयोजित by the पब्लिक + Intragovernmental Debt.
The second panel shows the दो कर्ज़ आंकड़े as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for that year ).
The top फलक is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars.
The United States public debt is the money उधार by the संघीय सरकारी of the United States through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal government agencies.
US public debt consists of two घटकs:
Debt held by the public शामिल राजकोष प्रतिभूति आयोजित by निवेशकों बाहर the संघीय government, including that held by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve System and foreign, state and local governments.
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the संघीय सरकारी कि हैं owed to कार्यक्रम beneficiaries, such as the Social Security Trust Fund.
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses, सहित ब्याज आय, of these accounts that have been invested in Treasury securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a परिणाम of the सालाना एकीकृत budget deficit or surplus.
The federal government budget deficit or surplus is the अंतर between government receipts and spending, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, some spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) भी adds to the debt.
Historically, the US public debt as a share of जीडीपी increased during wars and recessions, and subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the पब्लिक as a share of जीडीपी peaked just after World War II ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ), but then fell over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, large budget deficits और the resulting increases in debt have led to concern about the long-term sustainability of the federal government 's fiscal policies.
on 2 अप्रैल 2013, कर्ज़ आयोजित by the public was approximately $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion, giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors, the largest of which यहूद the लोगों 's Republic of China and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In basketball, an assist is attributed to a खिलाड़ी जो गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a way that leads to a score by field goal, meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some निर्णय शामिल in deciding whether a passer should be credited with an assist.
An assist can be scored लिये the passer even if the player who receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball.
However, the original definition of an assist did not include such situations, so the तुलना of assist आंकडे आरपार eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass directly before the score may be counted as an assist, so no अधिक than एक assist can be recorded per field goal ( unlike in other sports, such as ice hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting foul और स्कोरिंग by फ़्री throws करता not count as an assist in the NBA, but does in FIBA play ( only one assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ), as उनके भूमिका is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to मिलेंगी कम assists, लकिन centers साथ good floor presence and court vision can dominate a team by assisting.
Being inside the key, the center often has the best angles and the best position for `` बर्तन '' और अन्य छोटी गुजरता in the scoring area.
Center Wilt चेम्बरलेन led the NBA in assists in 1968.
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess, such as former NBA center hakeem olajuwon, can भी be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the रक्षा 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters.
The NBA single-game assist record is 30, आयोजित by स्कॉट skiles of the ऑरलैंडो Magic against the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record लिये सबसे करियर assists is held by John Stockton with 15,806.
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, when discussing property taxes in the United States, or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting.
In the United राज्य, it is a notional ईकाई equivalent to of a United States dollar ( a tenth of a cent ).
In the United Kingdom it was proposed during the दशकों of चर्चा on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling.
Several other currencies used the mill, such as the Maltese लीरा.
The term comes from the Latin `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth भाग ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a श्रेणी of विरोध between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC.
The collision between the fractious political world of the Greeks और the विशाल साम्राज्य of the फारसियों began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC.
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia, the Persians नियुक्त उत्पीड़क to rule each of them.
This would prove to be the source of much trouble for the यूनानियों और Persians alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos, with Persian support ; however, the expedition was a debacle and, pre-empting his dismissal, Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians.
This was the beginning of the Ionian Revolt, जिससे होता पिछला जबतक 493 BC, progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the conflict.
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria, and in 498 BC these forces helped to कैप्चर और बर्न the पारसी क्षेत्रीय capital of Sardis.
The पारसी किंग दारा the ग्रेट vowed to have revenge on Athens and Eretria for this act.
The revolt continued, with the two sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
In 494 bc, the फारसियों regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus.
At the Battle of Lade, the Ionians suffered a decisive शिकस्त, और the विद्रोह collapsed, साथ the फाइनल members being stamped out the following year.
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the हस्तक्षेप of the मेनलैंड Greeks, Darius embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 bc, साथ the पारसी सामान्य mardonius conquering thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign.
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece, this time across the Aegean Sea, under the कमांड of datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the cyclades, पहले besieging, capturing and razing Eretria.
However, while en route to attack Athens, the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of मैराथन, समाप्ति पारसी प्रयत्न लिये the समय होने.
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of Greece, but died in 486 BC and जिम्मेदारी लिये the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the दूसरी पारसी invasion of Greece with one of the largest ancient armies ever assembled.
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the बैटल of thermopylae अनुमत the फारसियों to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece.
However, while seeking to नष्ट the संयुक्त यूनानी बेड़े, the Persians suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
the following साल, the confederated यूनानियों went on the offensive, defeating the Persian army at the Battle of Plataea, and ending the invasion of Greece.
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the बाकी of the पारसी बेड़े at the Battle of Mycale, before expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states इससे the spartans, और the anti-persian गठबंधन थी इसलिए reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next three दशकों, शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons from Europe.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the League won a double victory कि आखिरकार secured स्वतंत्रता लिये the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted in a disastrous शिकस्त, और further campaigning थी निलंबित.
A fleet was sent to साइप्रस in 451 bc, लकिन हासिल little, and when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end.
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was marked by a सलाम सन्धि between एथेंस and Persia, the so-called Peace of Callias.
Hooverville near पोर्टलैंड, ऑरेगॉन
A `` hooverville '' is the लोकप्रिय नाम लिये shanty towns built by homeless people during the Great Depression.
They were named after Herbert Hoover, who was अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it.
The term was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity chief of the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल Committee.
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He थी drafted in the छठे round of the 1998 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers.
After a season on the practice squad and two seasons backing up Brett Favre, he was traded to the सिएटल सीहॉक्स in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to तीन प्रो प्याले और an All-Pro selection.
Following टेन सीज़न साथ the सीहॉक्स, Hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis कोल्टस in 2013 कम than 24 घंटों बाद होने released by the Tennessee Titans.
ICT is inevitably सम्बन्धित to the computer network.
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ), but is a more specific term कि तनावों the भूमिका of एकीकृत संचार और the संयोजन of दूरसंचार ( telephone lines and wireless signals ), computers as well as necessary enterprise software, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable users to access, store, transmit, and manipulate information.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, but it became popular after it was used in a रपट to the uk सरकारी by डेनिस Stevenson in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum for England, Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual and telephone networks साथ कंप्यूटर संजाल through a सिंगल cabling or कड़ी system.
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, भवन प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ the कंप्यूटर संजाल system using a single unified system of cabling, signal distribution and management.
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a shorter रूप of सूचना and communication ( s ) technology.
In fact infocommunications is the विस्तार of telecommunications with information processing and content handling functions on a common digital technology base.
For a comparison of ये और अन्य terms, see.
For ICT विकास अनुक्रमणिका around the world, see.
This is a सूची of characters from George Lopez.
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical model the `` corpuscles '' ( or आधुनिक electrons ) यहूद arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The वर्तमान मॉडल of the sub-atomic ढांचा involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson, who discovered the electron in 1897, was proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the परमाणु nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In this model, the atom is composed of electrons ( जिससे thomson स्टिल पुकारा `` corpuscles '', हालांकि G. J. Stoney had proposed that atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges, like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding ``.
The electrons ( as we know उन्हें आज ) यहूद विचार to be positioned throughout the atom, but with many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons, particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ).
Instead of a soup, the atom was also sometimes said to have had a `` बादल '' of धनात्मक चार्ज.
With this model, Thomson abandoned उसके पहले `` nebular atom '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least part of the atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles, although the rest of the positively चार्ज भाग of the अणु remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 thomson मॉडल थी disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden.
This was interpreted by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a बहुत ऊँची धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the case of gold, enough to balance about 100 electrons ), thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom.
Although सुनहरा रै an परमाणु क्रमांक of 79, तत्काल after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear charge.
The matter required प्रयोग to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge was very close to the atomic क्रमांक ( moseley मिला तभी एक ईकाई अंतर ), and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( लकिन quantum-limited ) bohr model of the atom in the same year, in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells.
Bohr had also प्रेरित Moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model was compared ( though not by Thomson ) to a British मिठाई पुकारा प्लम खीर, hence the name.
thomson 's पेपर थी प्रकाशित in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine, the leading British science journal of the day.
In Thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला of वर्दी positive electrification,...
In this model, the electrons were free to घूर्णन भीतर the blob or cloud of positive substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact कि जब an इलेक्ट्रॉन स्थानांतरित दूर इससे the बीच of the positive cloud, it felt a larger net positive inward force, because there was more material of opposite charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
In Thomson 's model, electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits.
Thomson attempted to make his model account for some of the प्रमुख spectral लाइनों known for some elements, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, Thomson 's मॉडल ( साथ साथ a समान saturnian रिंग मॉडल लिये परमाणु electrons, also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ), were earlier harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
ठेठ strip of bacon.
Bacon is a cured मांस prepared from a pig.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry packing ; the परिणाम is भैस बेकन ( भी ज्ञात as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further सूखी लिये सप्ताह or months in cold air, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh and dried बेकन is typically cooked before eating.
boiled बेकन is तैयार to eat, as is some smoked bacon, but may be cooked further before eating.
बेकन is prepared इससे several different cuts of meat.
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork, except in the United States, जहाँ it is लगभग सदा prepared इससे पोर्क पेट ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` fatty '', or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ).
The side cut has more meat and कम मोटे than the belly.
Bacon may be prepared इससे either of दो पृथक वापस कटौती : fatback, जिससे is almost pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
bacon-cured पोर्क loin is known as back bacon.
uncooked पोर्क belly bacon strips.
बेकन may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or grilled, or used as a minor ingredient to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, especially game, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The word is derived from the Old High German bacho, meaning `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` side of bacon '', and cognate with the बूढ़ा फ्रेंच बेकन.
In continental Europe, this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient, valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor.
In Italy, this is called pancetta and is usually cooked in small घन or परोसा uncooked और thinly sliced as भाग of an antipasto.
Meat from other animals, such as beef, lamb, chicken, goat, or turkey, may also be cut, cured, or otherwise prepared to resemble बेकन, और may भी be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such use is common in areas with significant यहूदी and Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured पेट of a स्वाइन carcass '' ; अन्य कटौती और विशेषताएँ must be separately qualified ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ).
For safety, bacon must be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be नष्ट by हीटिंग, freezing, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork and ham by मतभेद in the brine ( or dry packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably sodium nitrite, and occasionally सोडियम नाइट्रेट or पोटैशियम नाइट्रेट ( साल्टपीटर ) ; सोडियम ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
Flavorings such as brown शुगर or मेपल हैं प्रयुक्त लिये some products.
If used, सोडियम polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried.
Today, a brine for ham, लकिन नहीं बेकन, शामिल a विशाल amount of sugar.
Historically, `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to अलग कटौती of meat that were brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) (, codified in part at ) is a federal law जिससे establishes न्यूनतम मानकों लिये पेंशन plans in private industry and provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans.
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of employee लाभ योजना भागीदार और उनके beneficiaries by:
requiring the प्रकटीकरण of वित्तीय and other information concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
Providing for appropriate remedies और अभिगम to the federal courts.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee benefit plans, which are मिला मुख्यतः in the आतंरिक आय Code and ERISA itself.
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of Labor, the विभाग of the राजकोष ( विशेषकर the आतंरिक Revenue Service ), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Illegal immigration to the संयुक्त राज्य is the अधिनियम of विदेशी nationals entering the United States, without government permission and in violation of United States nationality law, or staying beyond the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A चेतावनी चिह्न at the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary between the United States and Canada in Point Roberts, Washington.
A much अलग approach at the U.S.-Mexico border near El Paso, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 थी अनुमानित by the बीच लिये आव्रजन अध्ययन to be परिचय 11 million people, down from 12.5 million people in 2007.
Other estimates दायरा इससे 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report, 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent School ज़िला is a स्कूल ज़िला आधारित in Alvin, Texas ( USA ).
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school ज़िला दक्षिण of ह्यूस्टन in the communities of Alvin, Manvel, Pearland, Hillcrest, Rosharon, Iowa Colony, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the city including the new large master-planned communities of छाया क्रीक ranch, दक्षिण कांटा, और दक्षिणी trails.
Alvin ISD कवर of land.
In human anatomy, the ulnar तंत्रिका is a nerve which runs near the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral ligament of कोहनी संयुक्त is in संबंध with the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human body ( meaning unprotected by मांसपेशी or अस्थि ), so injury is common.
This nerve is directly कनेक्ट to the छोटी उंगली, और the सटा हाफ of the रिंग finger, supplying the palmar side of these fingers, including both front and back of the tips, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One method of injuring the तंत्रिका is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the अस्थि और the overlying skin at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping एक 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is thought to be a pun, आधारित on the sound resemblance between the name of the bone of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous ``.
Alternatively, according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar सनसनी अनुभवी जब it is struck ''.
Hogwarts स्कूल of Witchcraft and Wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a fictional British school of magic for students aged eleven to eighteen, and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name इससे the hogwort संयंत्र ( croton capitatus ), जिससे वो था देखी at kew gardens कुछ समय पहले writing the series, although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th best Scottish educational establishment in a 2008 ऑनलाइन रैंकिंग, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School.
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network Rankings, it was added to the स्कूलों लिस्टिंग `` लिये मजा '' and was then voted on.
The U.S. subprime बंधक संकट थी a नियत of कार्यक्रम और शर्तें that led to a financial crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008.
It was characterized by a rise in subprime mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures, and the resulting decline of securities backed by कहा mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008, with significant disruption in the प्रवाह of क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession.
There were अनेक कल्याणकारी of the संकट, साथ commentators assigning different levels of blame to financial institutions, regulators, credit agencies, government housing policies, and consumers, among others.
A proximate कारण थी the rise in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given साल रोज़ इससे the ऐतिहासिक 8 % or निम्नतर दायरा to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S.
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 for example, यहूद adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two changes यहूद भाग of a broader trend of lowered lending standards and higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly indebted, with the ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising इससे 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the समाप्त of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home prices declined steeply बाद peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans became more difficult.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to रीसेट at उच्चतर ब्याज दरों ( causing higher monthly payments ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, including subprime mortgages, widely आयोजित by वित्तीय firms globally, lost most of their value.
Global investors also drastically घटाया purchases of mortgage-backed कर्ज़ और अन्य प्रतिभूति as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit and financial markets led to tightening क्रेडिट around the संसार और slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe.
The crisis had severe, long-lasting consequences लिये the u.S. और European economies.
The U.S. entered a deep recession, with nearly 9 million jobs खोया दौरान 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. आवास कीमतें गिरी nearly 30 % on average and the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but आवास कीमतें remained निकट उनके कम पाइंट और बेरोजगारी remained elevated.
Economic growth remained नीचे pre-crisis levels.
Europe also जारी to संघर्ष साथ इसके own economic crisis.
Carl Jung in 1910.
Myers and Briggs extrapolated their MBTI theory from Jung 's कृतियाँ in उसके किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक Types.
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( mbti ) assessment is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung और पहला प्रकाशित in उसके 1921 किताब Psychological Types ( English edition, 1923 ).
Jung theorized कि वहीँ हैं चार प्रिंसिपल मनोवैज्ञानिक functions by which we experience the world : sensation, intuition, feeling, and thinking.
One of these four कृत्यों is प्रबल most of the time.
The original डेवलपर of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद katharine कुक briggs और उसके बेटी, इसाबेल briggs मायर्स ; these two, having studied extensively the work of Jung, turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use.
They began creating the indicator during World War II, believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would help women who were entering the औद्योगिक workforce लिये the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective ''.
The initial प्रश्नावली grew into the myers-briggs Type Indicator, which was first published in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring मतभेद.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences in the way we construe हमारी अनुभवों, और ये वरीयताओं underlie हमारी रूचि, needs, मान, and motivation '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist महिला गागा, इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो album Born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15, 2011, four days ahead of इसके अनुसूचित रिलीज.
Written and produced by Lady गागा और redone, `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted गागा in the पास्ट, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the song was भी परिचय honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the सिंगल थी designed by गागा in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally well received by critics, who likened the song to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए have महरूम the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's पिछला redone-produced tracks, including `` Poker Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन पृथक hooks and a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे redemption, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, but was less successful commercially in तुलना to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets, and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where reedus निभाई यहूदा Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The video portrays them as आधुनिक day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying यीशु, और ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its release, the Catholic लीग condemned गागा लिये the कथित use of religious imagery and her role in the video.
however, आलोचकों generally praised the video, not finding any offensive content.
The video was मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including The Graham Norton Show, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, शुभ morning americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` और `` i सुना it through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the first artists in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the बागडोर of its production company.
Gaye 's later रिकार्डिंग बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` यौन Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions, including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार और the चट्टान और Roll Hall of Fame.
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the गति चित्र industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for.
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards, as it represents all the directing, acting, music composing, writing, editing and other प्रयत्न put forth into a film.
Consequently, बेहतरीन चित्र is the फाइनल पुरस्कार and the conclusion of the annual Academy Awards ceremony.
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002, showcase every film that has won the Best Picture शीर्षक चूंकि the पुरस्कार 's inception 85 सालो ago.
Heavy Rain is an इंटरैक्टिव नाटक action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3.
The game is written and निर्देशित by quantic सपना 's founder and CEO David Cage.
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled after फिल्मी noir, featuring चार protagonists शामिल साथ the mystery of the Origami Killer, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim, while investigative journalist Madison paige, एफबीआई profiler नॉर्मन jayden, और निजी detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller, and in some cases, performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी समय कार्यक्रम दौरान fast-paced action sequences.
The खिलाड़ी 's निर्णय and actions during the game will affect the narrative.
The main वर्ण can be killed, and certain actions may lead to different scenes and endings.
A playable डेमो थी released on 11 February 2010.
the डेमो थी released prior to इस तिथि लिये people who took part in a Four Day Challenge on 5 February 2010.
A patch to allow उपयोग of the प्लेस्टेशन मूव नियंत्रक to play the game was released in September 2010.
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed और has sold over two million copies.
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN और गेमिंग संघ, और बेहतरीन PS3 Game of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN.
A modified version of the game was released titled Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in France, aimed towards a younger दर्शक.
In 2010, the game was included in the book 1001 Video खेल तुम जरूर Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation industry liabilities : members funds and reserves ( a $ लाखो ) since 1988.
Annual total superannuation industry asset विकास 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements which people make in ऑस्ट्रेलिया to have निधि उपलब्धियाँ for them in retirement.
In Australia, superannuation arrangements are government-supported and encouraged, and minimum प्रावधानों हैं अनिवार्य लिये employees.
For example, employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries and मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation fund, but people are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation.
The minimum obligation required by employers is set to increase to 12 % धीरे stepping annually इससे 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the शर्तें of रिलीज contained in अनुसूची 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994.
This is a list of the characters इससे the अमरीकी comedy-drama television series The Game.
Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the लोकप्रिय vote in 26 राज्य और the District of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes.
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) won the popular vote in 24 states ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 चुनावी मत.
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote for the 2012 चुनाव, साथ प्रत्येक वर्गाकार representing one electoral vote.
The United States चुनावी कॉलेज is the संस्था that officially elects the President and Vice President of the United States every four years.
The President and Vice President are not elected सीधे by the मतदाता.
Instead, they are निर्वाचित by `` निर्वाचक '' who are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors are apportioned to each state and the District of कोलंबिया, लकिन not to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of electors in each state is equal to the number of members of कॉंग्रेस to जिससे the राज्य is हकदार.
The Twenty-third Amendment has always resulted in the District of Columbia having तीन निर्वाचक.
There are 538 electors, based on there being 435 प्रतिनिधि और 100 सीनेटरों, प्लस the तीन निर्वाचक from the District of Columbia.
Electors are pledged to particular अध्यक्षीय और वाइस presidential candidates, though unpledged electors are possible.
In all states, except Maine and Nebraska, electors are निर्वाचित on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
That is, all electors pledged to the presidential प्रत्याशी जो विन्स the सबसे मत in a state become electors for that state.
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '', selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote.
Although no elector is required by federal law to सम्मान a प्रतिज्ञा, वहीँ have तभी महरूम बहुत few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are निर्वाचित और requires प्रत्येक elector to डाल एक vote for President and another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue that the चुनावी College is inherently undemocratic and gives swing states disproportionate influence in electing the President and Vice President.
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the अध्यक्ष to the छोटी राज्य, as the न्यूनतम number of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all method of voting favors the larger states.
A number of constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking to alter the चुनावी College or replace it with a direct popular vote.
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the first African American to hold the office.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law स्कूल, जहाँ he थी अध्यक्ष of the Harvard Law Review.
He was a community organizer in शिकागो पहले कमाई his law degree.
He worked as a civil rights attorney in शिकागो और सिखाया संवैधानिक विधि at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004, कार्यशील unsuccessfully लिये the संयुक्त राज्य House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary, his keynote address at the Democratic नेशनल सम्मेलन in जुलाई, और उसके चुनाव to the सीनेट in नवम्बर.
He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he जीती sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination.
He then defeated Republican nominee John McCain in the general election, and was उदघाटन as अध्यक्ष on जनवरी 20, 2009.
Nine months बाद, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee mitt romney, and was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the form of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 और the कर राहत, बेरोजगारी Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer सुरक्षा अधिनियम ; the do n't पूछो, do n't बताना repeal अधिनियम of 2010 ; the बजट कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 2011 ; और the अमरीकी करदाताओं Relief Act of 2012.
In May 2012, he became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex marriage and in 2013 उसके प्रशासन दायर briefs जिससे urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop स्तर in अफगानिस्तान, हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ रूस, ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya, and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird was a होंडा मोटरसाइकिल made from 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to चुनौती the कावासाकी निंजा zx-11 as the संसार 's तीव्रतम production motorcycle, and Honda succeeded with a top speed of.
Two years later the शीर्षक passed to the suzuki Hayabusa, which reached.
The Blackbird is named बाद the लॉकहीड sr-71, also a speed record holder.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record based on images
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in डिजिटल स्वरूप that is theoretically capable of being shared across different health care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information प्रणालियों और other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test परिणाम, radiology बिंब, vital लक्षण, निजी आंकड़े जैसे आयु और weight, and billing information.
The Mariner up on the mast in a storm.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest प्रमुख कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी कवि सैमुएल टेलर कॉलरिज, लिखा in 1797–98 और प्रकाशित in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern संस्करण उपयोग a बाद संशोधित version printed in 1817 that featured a gloss.
Along with अन्य कविताएं in गीतात्मक Ballads, it was a signal shift to modern poetry and the beginning of British Romantic literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers and अन्य उपयोक्ता एजेंटों can automatically चुनें the appropriate proxy server ( access method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a JavaScript फलन “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This फलन रिटर्न a string with one or more access method specifications.
These विशेषताएँ कारण the user agent to use a particular proxy server or to connect directly.
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back जब a proxy fails to respond.
the ब्राउजर fetches this PAC file before requesting other URLs.
The URL of the PAC file is either विन्यस्त हस्तचालित or संकल्पित automatically by the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol.
Zendaya कोलमैन ( born सितंबर 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as Zendaya, is an American actress, singer and dancer.
she सितारों on the डिज़्नी Channel sitcom Shake It Up as Rocky Blue.
She has starred in two films and played one of the सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the फिल्मी frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced फर्न in the Pixie Hollow Games.
She appeared in Good Luck चार्ली as रॉकी ब्लू और in a शुभ लक चार्ली और शेक it up crossover title Charlie Shake It Up.
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the एपीसोड `` चलना the शरारत '' और on A.N.T. Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
Zendaya is भी a musician.
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on अगस्त 8, 2012 and started recording songs for her debut album on August 12, 2012.
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out `` and another सिंगल साथ बेला thorne पुकारा `` देखें me, '' which is featured on the Break It Down album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an एल्बम together called Shake It Up : Live 2 Dance, each have their own song on it, along with a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On अगस्त 21, 2012, zendaya और Bella Thorne released an EP called Shake It Up : Made In Japan.
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake, '' which is on the Disney Channel अवकाश प्लेलिस्ट cd, जिससे थी released on October 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released, entitled I < 3 Dance ; on it, Zendaya has दो गीतों साथ बेला - `` संक्रामक प्रेम '' और `` इस is my नृत्य Floor '' - as well as one solo song, `` Beat of My Drum. ''
This is a सूची of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state ), grouped by type and sorted by location.
it contains all public-use and military airports in the state.
Some private-use and former एयरपोर्ट may be शामिल जहाँ notable, ऐसे as airports that were previously public-use, those with commercial enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code.
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc. Originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone और ipod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it रै महरूम विस्तारित to support अन्य Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's Android, Apple करता नहीं अनुज्ञा आईओएस लिये installation on non-Apple hardware.
, Apple 's App Store contained अधिक than 700,000 iOS applications, which have collectively been downloaded more than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the स्मार्टफोन मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012, behind only Google 's Android.
In June 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile web data consumption ( including use on both the ipod टच और the iPad ).
At the half of 2012, there यहूद 410 लाख डिवाइस activated.
According to the special media event held by Apple on September 12, 2012, 400 लाख डिवाइस have महरूम बेची through जून 2012.
the उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस of iOS is based on the concept of direct manipulation, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface control elements consist of sliders, switches, and buttons.
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe, tap, पिंच, और रिवर्स पिंच, सब of which have specific definitions within the context of the iOS operating system and its multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the यंत्र ( एक आम परिणाम is the undo कमांड ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ).
iOS is निकला इससे OS X, with which it shares the Darwin foundation.
iOS is Apple 's मोबाईल संस्करण of the OS X operating system used on Apple computers.
In iOS, there are four abstraction layers : the Core OS layer, the Core Services layer, the Media layer, and the Cocoa Touch layer.
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the यंत्र 's फ्लैश मेमोरी लिये the प्रणाली partition, using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself.
iOS फिलहाल रनों on iphone, ipad, iPod touch and Apple TV.
The Plymouth Superbird is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके अत्यधिक high rear wing.
1987 Audi खेल quattros1 with its large wings at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable एयर गति आरपार a देह of a गाडी in गति, usually described as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams, because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the amount of एयर बहती underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
Spoilers are often fitted to race and high-performance खेल गाड़ियाँ, हालांकि they have become common on passenger vehicles as well.
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for styling purposes and have either छोटी aerodynamic लाभ or भी मेक the aerodynamics worse.
Spoilers for गाड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः incorrectly confused with, or the term used interchangeably with, wings.
ऑटोमोटिव विंग्स हैं डिवाइस जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन is to generate downforce as air passes around them, not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as Nintendo 's mascot, is a fictional character निर्मित by खेल पंक्तियां शिगेरू miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of वीडियो खेल जहाँ the अक्षर मारियो plays a part, either as the protagonist, antagonist, supporting character, as part of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game within a game.
It does not include simple references to the character, ऐसे as the portraits of Mario found in The Legend of Zelda : A Link to the Past.
The year indicated is the year the game was first released, most commonly in जापानी ; खेल यहूद sometimes released सालो later in other regions of the world.
The list includes पोर्ट, remakes and compilations.
It does n't include कोई आभासी कंसोल re-releases.
`` Man of Constant विषाद '' ( भी ज्ञात as `` i am a man of निरंतर विषाद '' ) is a traditional American folk song first recorded by Dick Burnett, a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky.
The song was originally recorded by burnett as `` विदाई सोंग '' मुद्रित in a Richard Burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An early version was recorded by emry आर्थर in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public ब्याज in the सोंग थी renewed after the release of the 2000 film O Brother, Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central role in the फिल्मी 's plot.
The song was also शामिल in the फिल्मी 's अत्यधिक successful, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
जोसेफसन जंक्शन सरणी चिप विकसित by the National Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : v ) is the si निकला ईकाई लिये इलेक्ट्रिक potential ( voltage ), electric potential difference, and electromotive force.
The volt is named in honor of the इतालवी physicist alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ), who invented the voltaic pile, possibly the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo हत्या ( चित्र लिया in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन, और उसके बीवी, सोफी, duchess of hohenberg, यहूद shot dead in Sarajevo, by Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The हत्यारे ' motives यहूद consistent with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia.
सर्बियाई सैन्य officers stood behind the attack.
At the top of ये सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों थी मुख्य of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs और pistols और trained them.
the हत्यारे यहूद दिए अभिगम to the वही clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine tunnel, and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the शीर्ष सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों.
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish mission in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, स्तिथ in present-day San Juan Capistrano.
It was संस्थापित on सब संतो ' दिन नवम्बर 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th century theologian and `` warrior पुजारी '' जो resided in the abruzzo region of Italy, San Juan Capistrano has the distinction of being home to the oldest building in California still in use, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and `` Father Serra 's Church, '' it is the only extant structure where it has been प्रलेखित कि the padre junipero Serra celebrated mass.
One of the best known of the alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया मिशन ( और एक of the few मिशन to have दरअसल been founded twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ).
The site was originally consecrated on अक्तूबर 30, 1775, by Father Fermín Lasuén, but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The success of the उपनिवेश is evident in its historical records.
prior to the आगमन of the प्रचारकों, कुछ 550 natives were scattered throughout the local area.
By 1790, the number of converted ईसाइयों था grown to 700, और बस छह years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone, out of the total 4,639 souls परिवर्तित between 1776 और 1847.
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño Indians ) हैं दफ्न in unmarked graves in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan, who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property, and a statue raised in उसके सम्मान स्टैंड at the सिर of the crypt.
The surviving chapel also serves as the फाइनल resting प्लेस of तीन padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José Barona, Vicente Fustér, and Vicente Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor.
The criolla or `` मिशन अंगूर, '' थी first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery.
The Mission entered a long period of gradual decline after secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts were made over the सालो to restore the Mission to its former glory, but none met with great success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, and `` Serra 's Chapel '' is still प्रयुक्त लिये धार्मिक services.
About half-a-million visitors, including 80,000 school children, come to the मिशन प्रत्येक साल.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 भूकंप ) हैं a प्रसिद्ध architectural अचरज, the Mission is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ).
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite subject for many notable artists, and has been immortalized in साहित्य और on फिल्मी numerous टाइम्स, शायद अधिक than any other mission.
In 1984, a modern church complex was constructed बस उत्तर और west of the Mission compound and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a museum, with the सेरा चैपल भीतर the compound serving as a chapel for the mission parish.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 American teen romantic comedy film starring John Cusack and लिखा और निर्देशित by जंगली स्टीव Holland.
it tells the स्टोरी of high school student Lane Myer who is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a खेल और प्रदर्शनी स्टेडियम, स्तिथ in the सेंट्रल कारोबार District of New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the New Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its steel frame कवर a expanse.
Its dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम और रै a व्यास of, making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the ncaa 's प्रभाग i-a tulane ग्रीन वेव फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम in Conference USA ), the State Farm Bayou Classic, the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl, the Allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
क्युकी of the आकार और स्थान in एक of the प्रमुख पर्यटक destinations in the United States, the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates being considered for major sporting events, such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four.
In 2005, the superdome gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय attention of a different type when it housed thousands of people seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina.
The building suffered extensive damage as a परिणाम of the तूफ़ान, और थी बंद for many months afterward.
on अक्तूबर 3, 2011, it थी announced that German automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The new नाम took effect on October 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium that has नामकरण अधिकारों इससे mercedes-benz ( और पहला in the संयुक्त राज्य ), after the Mercedes-Benz Arena, the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart, in Stuttgart, Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, China.
Lobby of जम्बो हाउस
जिराफ़ on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed डीलक्स रिज़ॉर्ट at the वॉल्ट Disney World Resort.
It खोली on अप्रैल 16, 2001.
The resort is स्वामित्व और संचालित by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts.
Disney 's Animal किंगडम आवास is स्तिथ in the Animal Kingdom Resort Area, adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom.
It gives guests the अवसर to दृश्य चरने वन्यजीव बाहर their rooms and public areas in the resort within proximity of the animals, conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna.
The People 's Party, also known as the `` Populists '', was a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त राज्य स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( संयुक्त States, 19th Century ).
It was most महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96, and then rapidly faded away.
Based among poor, white cotton farmers in the दक्षिण ( विशेषकर उत्तर कैरोलिना, अलबामा, और टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ), it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions, and in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their presidential nominee, William जेनिंग्स Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` are commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in विपक्ष to established interests and mainstream parties.
Linguistic map of Nigeria, कैमरून, और बेनिन.
Sign in English, outside the विश्वविद्यालयों of Lagos
There are hundreds of भाषाएं बोला in Nigeria.
The major languages are Yoruba, हौसा, इग्बो, ईदो, fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of सीरियल, अंग्रेज़ी, the पूर्व colonial language, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
अंग्रेज़ी, however, remains an विशेष बचाना of the country 's urban elite, and is not widely spoken in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे, encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, ऐसे as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
A series of events led to the आक्रमण on Pearl Harbor.
War between Japan and the United States had been a possibility कि प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित लिये चूंकि the 1920s, though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan.
Over the next decade, Japan expanded slowly into China, leading to all आउट युद्ध between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo सब imports into चीन, सहित war supplies purchased from the U.S.
This मूव prompted the संयुक्त राज्य to embargo all oil exports, leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies.
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific.
The Philippine islands, at कि समय an अमरीकी territory, were also a Japanese target.
The Japanese सैन्य concluded कि an आक्रमण of the फिलीपीन would provoke an American military response.
Rather than seize and fortify the आइलैंड्स, और इंतजार लिये the अपरिहार्य us counterattack, जापानी 's सैन्य leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack, which they assumed would negate the American forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands.
Planning for the attack had begun in बहुत जल्दी 1941, by Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally won assent from the Naval High Command by, among other बाते, threatening to resign.
The attack was स्वीकृत in the गर्मियाँ at an Imperial Conference and again at a second Conference in the fall.
Simultaneously over the साल, पायलटों यहूद प्रशिक्षित, और ships prepared for its execution.
Authority for the attack was granted at the second Imperial सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक परिणाम satisfactory to Japan was not reached.
After final approval by Emperor हिरोहितो the अनुक्रम to आक्रमण थी जारी at the beginning of December.
A common office stapler
A common स्कूल stapler
A stapler is a mechanical यंत्र कि joins चादरें of पेपर or समान material by driving a thin metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely used in government, business, कार्यालयों, घरों और स्कूलों.
The word `` stapler '' can दरअसल refer to a number of different devices of varying uses.
In addition to joining paper sheets together, staplers can भी be प्रयुक्त in a सर्जिकल setting to join tissue together with surgical staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, most staplers हैं used to join multiple sheets of paper.
Paper staplers come in two distinct types : हस्तचालित और इलेक्ट्रिक.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, although models that हैं प्रयुक्त जबकि नियत on a डेस्क or अन्य सतह are not uncommon.
Electric staplers exist in a किस्में of अलग designs and models.
Their primary operating function is to join large संख्याएँ of पेपर चादरें साथ in rapid succession.
Some electric staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 sheets at a time.
Swallowing, known scientifically as deglutition, is the process in the human or animal body that makes something pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, और into the ग्रासनाल, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails और the ऑब्जेक्ट goes through the trachea, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the human body it is नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of Pennsylvania, was a leader of the Radical रिपब्लिकन गुट of the रिपब्लिकन Party and a fierce opponent of slavery.
He was one of the most influential members in the इतिहास of कॉंग्रेस.
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means कमेटी, स्टीवंस, a witty, sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party leader, dominated the House from 1861 until his death.
He wrote much of the financial विधान कि paid for the American Civil War.
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the prime leaders of the Radical republicans दौरान the war and Reconstruction era.
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण have changed.
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism, depicting स्टीवंस as a विलेन लिये उसके वकालत of हर्ष उपायों in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This highly negative characterization held sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist स्कूल in the 1950s led to a दमदार धनात्मक सराहना of Stevens ' work on civil rights for Freedmen.
a हाल biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction, the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
Overview of the translation of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA and the संश्लेषण of प्रोटीन by a ribosome
In molecular biology and genetics, अनुवाद is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins.
It is part of the प्रक्रम of जीन अभिव्यक्ति.
In translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide, that will later fold into an active protein.
In bacteria, translation occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm, where the large and छोटी subunits of the राइबोसोम हैं स्तिथ, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, translation occurs आरपार the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis.
The ribosome facilitates डिकोडिंग by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to that of the mRNA.
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids कि हैं chained साथ into a polypeptide as the mRNA passes through and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape.
In many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide अंदर लिये later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, such as transfer RNA, ribosomal rna, और छोटी नाभिकीय rna, do नहीं undergo translation into proteins.
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation, elongation, translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the अमीनो एसिड कड़ी, or polypeptide that is the product of translation ).
अमीनो acids are brought to ribosomes and assembled into proteins.
In activation, the correct amino acid is covalently बंधुआ to the सही transfer RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino acid is joined by इसके carboxyl group to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond.
When the tRNA has an amino acid linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' समाप्त of mrna साथ the सहायता of initiation factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens when the A site of the ribosome चेहरों a रोकें codon ( uaa, uag, or UGA ).
no trna can recognize or bind to this codon.
Instead, the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the संपूर्ण ribosome/mrna complex.
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting अनुवाद ; ये शामिल anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, and puromycin, among others.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes, and thus एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना बैक्टीरियल infections बगैर any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
A multimedia संदेश on a मोबाईल phone.
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard way to send संदेश कि शामिल मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to और from mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability that अनुमत एक्सचेंज of टेक्स्ट messages only up to 160 characters in length.
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets, although it is also popular as a method of delivering news and entertainment content सहित वीडियो, तस्वीरें, टेक्स्ट पृष्ठों और ringtones.
The standard is developed by the खोलें मोबाईल गठबंधन ( ओमो ), although during development it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an infectious बीमारी अद्वितीय to इंसानो, caused by either of two virus variants, Variola major and Variola minor.
The disease is also known by the लैटिन names variola or variola vera, derived from varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was first used in Britain in the 15th century to फर्क variola इससे the `` ग्रेट चेचक '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) थी diagnosed on 26 अक्तूबर 1977.
Smallpox स्थानीयकृत in छोटी रक्त बरतन of the skin and in the mouth and throat.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular खाज और, बाद, उठाया fluid-filled blisters.
V. प्रमुख produces a अधिक गंभीर disease and has an overall mortality rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, और क्यूबन खुजली ) जिससे मारता about 1 % of its victims.
long-term जटिलताओं of V. प्रमुख infection include characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring, और limb deformities due to गठिया और osteomyelitis are less common complications, seen in about 2–5 % of cases.
Smallpox is believed to have emerged in इंसान populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest physical evidence of it is संभवतः the pustular खाज on the mummified body of Pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt.
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually during the closing years of the 18th सदी ( including five reigning monarchs ), and was responsible for a third of all blindness.
Of all those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died इससे the बीमारी.
smallpox थी जिम्मेदार लिये an अनुमानित 300–500 million deaths during the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the World Health Organization ( जो ) अनुमानित कि 15 लाख लोगों contracted the disease and that two million died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
Smallpox is one of दो संक्रामक रोगों to have been eradicated, the other being rinderpest, which was declared eradicated in 2011.
`` i want to थाम अपना हाथ '' is a song by the English rock band the Beatles.
Written by जॉन लेनन और Paul McCartney, and recorded in October 1963, it was the first Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment.
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone सीधा to the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों रिकार्ड चार्ट on इसके दिन of रिलीज ( 29 नवम्बर 1963 ) था it नहीं महरूम अवरोधित by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You ``, the Beatles ' previous UK single, which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group.
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' stayed at क्रमांक एक लिये पाँच सप्ताह और remained in the uk शीर्ष पचास for twenty-one weeks in total.
It was also the group 's first American number one, entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry.
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven weeks — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '', a reverse scenario of what had occurred in ब्रिटेन, और remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks.
`` I Want to थाम अपना हाथ '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single worldwide.
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the late 1950s and जारी जबतक the early 1970s.
Gassers were आधारित on उत्पादन मॉडल इससे the 1930s to mid-1960s, जिससे have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an independent front suspension ), though a raised stock front suspension is common as well.
Common weight कटौती तकनीकों include fiberglass body panels, stripped interiors and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
Because they were primarily built for racing, these cars typically had the इंजन swapped to a larger or more powerful one, the existing stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both.
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection, such as one from Algon, hilborn, or crower.
With form being dictated by function, their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly, largely due to front ends होने उठाया उच्चतर than भण्डार, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ).
Having their exhaust पाइप निकास through the सामने फेंडर खूब is a आम characteristic of gassers, as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing क्लास, बल्कि than one using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the predecessor of the modern Funny car.
Twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old पुरूष
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the दिल over a काल of समय, as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body.
The recording produced by इस noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ).
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats, as खूब as the आकार और स्थिति of the कक्षों, the presence of any damage to the heart, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts, but may also be performed on पशु, प्रायः लिये निदान of दिल abnormalities or शोध.
Donald John Trump, Sr. ( born जून 14, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी business magnate, television personality and author.
He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization and the founder of ट्रम्प entertainment Resorts.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice have made him a well-known हस्ती जो थी no. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the बेटे of फ्रेड ट्रम्प, a wealthy New York City real-estate developer.
He worked for his father 's firm, एलिज़ाबेथ ट्रम्प & बेटे, जबकि उपस्थित the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was given control of the company in 1971 और renamed it The Trump Organization.
In 2010, Trump expressed an interest in becoming a candidate for president of the United States in the 2012 election, though in May 2011, he घोषित he होता नहीं be a प्रत्याशी.
In December 2011, Trump was suggested as a possible vice अध्यक्षीय चयन by मिशेल bachmann, if she were to win the Republican nomination.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke, written and first recorded in 1963 और released अंतर्गत the आरसीए विक्टर लेबल shortly बाद his death in late 1964.
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in तुलना साथ उसके पिछला singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the decades since its release, and is # 12 on रोलिंग स्टोन 's 500 महानतम गीतों of All Time.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न and stored in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the energy that determines the तापमान of पदार्थ.
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates इससे the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the अंतर in तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), meaning earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), अर्थ hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is created by radioactive क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding कूलर rock.
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt, creating magma convection upward चूंकि it is lighter than the solid rock.
The मैग्मा heats चट्टान और water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known लिये विद्युत पीढी.
Worldwide, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural अनुप्रयोग.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, चिरस्थायी, और environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन रै historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of fossil fuels.
As a परिणाम, geothermal शक्ति has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा needs, लकिन only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and exploration for deep संसाधन is बहुत expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, energy prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing to अदा a छोटी more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध and industry experience, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between two and ten cents per kwh.
Ownership of property may be निजी, collective, or common and the property may be objects, land/real estate, or intellectual property.
determining स्वामित्व in विधि involves determining who has certain rights and duties over the property.
These rights and duties, sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle of अधिकारों ', can be separated and held by different parties.
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers, प्लेटो और अरस्तू, जो आयोजित अलग राय on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought निजी प्रॉपर्टी निर्मित divisive inequalities, जबकि Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) thought private property enabled people to receive the full benefit of their labor.
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” प्रॉब्लम, जहाँ people tend to degrade common property more than they do private property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for example, a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property, depending on his worldview, might be more interested in short-term financial gain than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an नजर toward अन्य 's चिंताएं ( e.g., those of future generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle justified the अस्तित्व of निजी स्वामित्व, he बाएँ खोलें सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate property between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society.
Over the millennia, and across संस्कृतियों कया can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the foundations of प्राचीन और आधुनिक समाजों ऐसे as धन, व्यापार, कर्ज़, दिवालियापन, the criminality of theft, and private vs. public property.
Ownership is the key building block in the development of the पूंजीवादी socio-economic system.
Adam Smith stated कि एक of the पवित्र laws of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions.
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly complex : एक can लाभ, ट्रांसफ़र और खोना स्वामित्व of प्रॉपर्टी in a number of ways.
To acquire property one can खरीदें it साथ धन, व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, प्राप्त it as a gift, steal it, find it, make, it or homestead it.
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money, exchanging it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, giving it as a gift, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in that the owner of any property will also own the आर्थिक लाभ of कि प्रॉपर्टी.
`` What 's My नाम ? '' is a सोंग अंकित by barbadian recording artist Rihanna, for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the सोंग थी released as the second single from Loud on October 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The R & B song was उत्पादित by the नॉर्वेजियाई उत्पादन duo स्टारगेट, और was written by the duo along with Ester Dean, Traci Hale, and Drake.
lyrically, it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse and romance.
Music critics gave the song positive reviews, citing it some of Rihanna 's बेहतरीन गायन कार्य to तिथि ; वहीँ थी a तारीफ़ regarding its romantic nature, as well as its sexual tones.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US Billboard hot 100 चार्ट, giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010, as खूब as उसके eighth overall on the chart.
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and the संयुक्त किंगडम और पहुँचे the top five in Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway and Slovakia.
The song received a nomination at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Rap/Sung Collaboration.
An accompanying music video, निर्देशित by फिलिप andelman, portrays a romantic encounter between Rihanna and Drake in a grocery store along with romantic scenes between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the Atlantic, including Saturday Night Live in America and the series seven finale of The X Factor in the United Kingdom.
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's media regulator, ofcom, लिये the raunchy प्रकृति of Rihanna 's outfit.
A mathematical constant is a special number, प्रायः a real number, that is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
Constants arise in many different क्षेत्रों of गणित, with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry, number theory and calculus.
What it means लिये a निरंतर to उठता `` naturally '', और कया makes a निरंतर `` interesting '', is ultimately a matter of taste, and some mathematical constants are notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest.
The more popular constants have been studied throughout the आयु और computed to अनेक दशमलव स्थान.
All mathematical स्थिरांक हैं definable संख्याएँ और प्रायः हैं also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ).
Elections to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट यहूद आयोजित on नवम्बर 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special चुनाव on जनवरी 19, 2010 in Massachusetts was held earlier in the year. )
Thirty-four of the seats were लिये six-year शर्तें to the सीनेट 's `` क्लास तीन '', and three were special elections for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or यहूद पराजित in the प्राथमिक ) and 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ).
After the previous elections ( in 2008 ), the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट was composed of 58 Democrats, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
Republicans won four seats held by retiring डेमोक्रेट और Republicans defeated two incumbent Democrats.
इस थी the largest क्रमांक of republicans gains चूंकि the 1994 elections and also the first time since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats.
This was the fourth लगातार election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to gain seats and the third consecutive mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican wins, however, the Democrats retained a majority of the Senate with 51 seats plus 2 independents जो caucus साथ उन्हें, compared to the 47 Republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches its highest or lowest excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere.
As a result, on the day of the संक्रांति, the सूर्य appears to have reached its highest or lowest annual altitude in the sky above the horizon at local solar noon.
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to stand still ), because at the solstices, the Sun stands still in declination ; that is, the मौसमी गति of the सूर्य 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, together साथ the equinoxes, are connected with the seasons.
In many संस्कृतियों the solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer.
The term solstice can also be used in a broader sense, as the date ( day ) when this occurs.
The day of the solstice is either the longest day of the year ( in summer ) or the shortest दिन of the साल ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
जेरी ली लुईस ( born सितंबर 29, 1935 ) is an American rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist.
He is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' and is often viewed as “rock & roll 's first great wild man”.
An जल्दी पायोनियर of चट्टान and roll music, in 1956 Lewis made his first recordings at Sun Records.
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the दक्षिण, लकिन it थी उसके 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed इस in कि वही साल जब he अंकित songs such as `` Great Balls of Fire ``, `` Breathless `` and `` High School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold more records than एल्विस प्रेस्ली at this time.
However, Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in the वेक of उसके विवाह to उसके young cousin.
He था छोटी कामयाबी in the चार्ट following the scandal and his popularity quickly faded.
His live प्रदर्शन शुल्क plummeted from $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
In the meantime he was संकल्पित to gain back some of his popularity.
During the early 60’s he did n't have much chart कामयाबी साथ few अपवाद such as `` What 'd I Say ``.
His live performances at इस समय यहूद increasingly जंगली and energetic.
His album Live at the Star Club, हैम्बर्ग इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by अनेक म्यूज़िक पत्रकारों and fans as one of the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever.
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little success, in 1968 Lewis made a transition into country music and had hits with गीतों ऐसे as `` another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited his करियर और throughout the लेट '60s और '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts.
His # 1 देश hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You ``, `` There Must Be More to Love Than This ``, `` Would You Take Another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with songs such as a cover of the बिग Bopper 's `` Chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``.
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiences around the world and still रिलीज new albums.
एक ऐसे एल्बम, titled Last Man Standing, is his best selling to date at over a million copies sold worldwide.
This थी followed by औसत Old Man which has received some of the best sales of Lewis’s career.
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both rock and country, won several ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित a आजीवन उपलब्धि Award.
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986, और उसके pioneering योगदान to the genre has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the movie Great Balls of Fire, अभिनीत डेनिस Quaid.
In 2003, Rolling Stone पत्रिका सूचीबद्ध उसके बक्सा नियत सब कातिल, no फिलर : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of all time ``.
In 2004, they ranked him number 24 on उनके सूची of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar Quartet and the Class of '55 album, which also included Johnny नकदी, कार्ल perkins, रॉय orbison और एल्विस Presley.
Henry Louis स्टीफंस, बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man पढना a समाचारपत्र with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The emancipation उदघोषणा थी an अनुक्रम जारी to सब खण्ड of the Executive branch ( including the Army and Navy ) of the United States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil War.
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as commander in मुख्य of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां ; it थी नहीं a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free, and ordered the Army ( and all segments of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as फ़्री सब those enslaved in ten states that were still in rebellion, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion, लकिन as the फौज took कंट्रोल of Confederate regions, the slaves in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already महरूम subdued यहूद तत्काल emancipated, और over 3 लाख more were emancipated as the Union army advanced.
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion, nor to most regions already नियंत्रित by the Union army ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners, did not itself outlaw गुलामी, और किया not make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens.
It made the eradication of गुलामी an सुस्पष्ट युद्ध लक्ष्य, in जोड to the goal of reuniting the Union.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of अमेरिका कि किया नहीं वापसी to संघ कंट्रोल by January 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed and issued January 1, 1863, took प्रभाव मगर in स्थितियाँ where the Union had already mostly regained control.
The उदघोषणा outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war, angered some Northern Democrats, energized anti-slavery forces, and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the आत्माओं of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य, और led to many slaves escaping their masters and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by उसे और स्टीव Shibuya.
It is Snyder 's first film आधारित on an असली script.
The film stars Emily ब्राउनिंग, abbie cornish, जेना malone, वैनेसा हजेंस, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution, as वो makes a योजना to एस्केप the hospital before suffering a lobotomy.
the फिल्मी थी released in both conventional and IMAX theatres in the United States at midnight on March 25, 2011.
It प्राप्त generally ऋणात्मक reviews from critics, but was a moderate box office success.
Front and back of Canon PowerShot A95, a typical pocket-size डिजिटल कैमरा
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress V96C digital back, an example of a पेशेवर डिजिटल camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a कैमरा कि takes वीडियो or स्टिल photographs by recording images on an electronic image sensor.
Most cameras sold today are digital, and digital cameras are incorporated into अनेक डिवाइस ranging इससे गुस्से और मोबाईल फोन ( पुकारा कैमरा फोन ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an optical system, typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to फ़ोकस लाइट onto an image pickup device.
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager, just as with film but the image pickup device is इलेक्ट्रॉनिक बल्कि than रासायनिक.
However, unlike film cameras, digital cameras can display images on a screen immediately after being अंकित, और store and delete images from memory.
Many digital कैमरे can भी record moving video with sound.
Some digital cameras can क्रॉप और सिलाई तस्वीरें और perform other elementary image editing.
The inside and front of a Dell PowerEdge web सर्वर, a कंप्यूटर designed for rack mounting
Multiple web servers may be प्रयुक्त लिये a ऊँची traffic website, here four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the कंप्यूटर अनुप्रयोग ) that helps to deliver web content that can be accessed through the Internet.
The most आम उपयोग of वेब सर्वर is to मेजबान वेबसाइटों, लकिन वहीँ are other uses such as gaming, data storage or running enterprise applications.
The American Red Cross ( ARC ), also known as the American National Red Cross, is a humanitarian संगठन कि provides आपात सहायता, disaster relief and education inside the United States.
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the International Federation of रेड क्रॉस और रेड Crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the American Red Cross offers services in five other areas : community services that help the needy ; communications services and comfort for military members and their family members ; the collection, processing and distribution of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness, स्वास्थ्य, और सुरक्षा ; और अंतरराष्ट्रीय राहत और विकास कार्यक्रम.
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code, Section 3001, the American National Red Cross is governed by स्वयंसेवक और समर्थित by जातियाँ दान, income from health and safety training and products, and income from blood products.
the अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The Chairman of the Board of राज्यपालों, सेवारत उसके second three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current President and Chief Executive Officer is गेल J. mcgovern.
A मुर्गा in Kosovo
A मुर्गा, प्रर्दशित wattles, earlobes and comb
A rooster crowing ( साथ ऑडियो )
सही
A मुर्गा ( भी पुकारा a cockerel or cock ) is a male gallinaceous bird.
It usually refers to a male chicken ( gallus gallus ).
Immature male मुर्गियों less than one year old are called cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States, and the term is widely used throughout North अमेरिका, as खूब as ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई Zealand.
In the United Kingdom and आयरलैंड the older term `` cockerel '' is more commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name for a पुरूष of अन्य प्रजाति of बर्ड, लिये उदाहरण `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to नींद at night, and is done by both sexes.
The rooster is polygamous, लकिन can नहीं guard several nests of eggs at once.
He गार्ड the सामान्य क्षेत्रफल जहाँ उसके hens are nesting, and will attack other roosters that enter his territory.
During the daytime, he usually sits on a high perch, usually 3–5 feet off the ground to serve as a lookout for his flock.
He will sound a distinctive alarm कॉल if predators are nearby.
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the पोकीमॉन वीडियो खेल श्रेणी, पहला प्रकाशित in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan.
In the US, it was initially published by Wizards of the coast, the कम्पनी कि produces, in December 1998.
निन्टेंडो took over publishing in June 2003.
It is one of निन्टेंडो 's पिछला बाकी strong links to its heritage as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in gaydon, Warwickshire, United Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is part of the जैगुआर जमीन रोवर समूह, a subsidiary of Tata Motors of India.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car ब्रांड in the संसार ( बाद जीपी ).
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for one specific vehicle model, नामित बस the Land Rover, launched by Rover in 1948.
Over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल, सहित the Defender, Discovery, Freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque.
Land Rovers are currently assembled in the company 's Halewood और solihull पौधे, साथ शोध और development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover बेची 194,000 वाहनों worldwide in 2009.
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 मॉडल, जमीन रोवर as a कम्पनी रै only existed since 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product line of the रोवर कम्पनी जिससे थी subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the British Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models, and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business troubles prompted the establishment of a separate Land Rover company लकिन स्टिल अंतर्गत the BL umbrella, remaining part of the subsequent Rover Group in 1988, under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised.
In 1994 Rover Group plc थी acquired by BMW.
In 2000, Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and जमीन रोवर थी sold to Ford Motor Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover brand इससे bmw लिये around £6 लाख.
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands for the पहला समय चूंकि 2000 जब the Rover group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, Ford sold दोनो जमीन रोवर और जैगुआर Cars to Tata Motors.
This sale भी शामिल the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the first DVD compilation released by Aniplex of The New कप्तान shūsuke amagai arc
The ninth season of the Bleach anime श्रेणी is named.
The श्रेणी is based on Tite Kubo 's manga with same name.
The episodes are निर्देशित by noriyuki abe और उत्पादित by TV Tokyo, Dentsu, and Studio Pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper captain, shūsuke amagai, और the रहस्य surrounding the Kasumiōji clan, one of the families that constitute the nobility of Soul Society.
The ऋतु began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo and ended on October 7, 2008.
The English अनुकूलन of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी is licensed by viz मीडिया, and this arc began airing on August 28, 2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four episodes of the season, have been released by Aniplex ; the first DVD compilation was released on नवम्बर 26, 2008 और the पांचवां on कूच 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be प्रकाशित by Viz Media on December 13, 2011.
the एपीसोड use three pieces of theme music : one opening theme and two closing themes.
the opening theme is `` Chu-Bura `` by Kelun.
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B, used for episodes 168 to 179, and the second closing theme is `` gallop '' by pe'zmoku, प्रयुक्त लिये the शेष of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex, मगर insofar as कॉंग्रेस may विनियमित it as भाग of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of पब्लिक अनुक्रम अपराधों, a अपराधों कि disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel वेश्यावृति, the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Only 8 counties currently contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( जिससे contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), Washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution, but some of these counties फिलहाल have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with अन्य देशों, वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The East Coast of the United States, also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard और commonly shortened to ईस्ट coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean.
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are, from उत्तर to दक्षिण, the u.S. राज्य of maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the संयुक्त States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda, California.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to अभ्यास law.
he और उसके wife, Pat Nixon, moved to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942.
he subsequently served in the United States Navy during World War II.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 और to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a अग्रणी anti-communist, और elevated him to national prominence.
He was the कार्यशील mate of ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
निक्सन परोसा लिये eight years as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to जॉन F. कैनेडी, और खोया a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया in 1962.
in 1968, he ran again for the presidency and was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
Nixon 's विज़िट to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक relations between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from वॉशिंगटन to the राज्य.
Among other things, he launched पहलों to लड़ो cancer and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस खोजी.
He थी re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the इस्तीफा of उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of उसके राजनैतिक support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor, जेराल्ड Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक विदेशी trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, और died चार दिनों बाद at the age of 81.
sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
it थी introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as खूब as obsessive–compulsive, दहशत, और सोशल चिंता विकार in both adults and children.
In 2011, it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that of older tricyclic antidepressants, but its पक्ष प्रभाव हैं much कम pronounced.
Differences साथ नए antidepressants are subtler and also mostly confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may कार्य better than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of depression.
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline results in a significant decrease of the क्रमांक of दहशत हमले और in improved विशेषता of life.
For obsessive-compulsive disorder, sertraline is not as प्रभावी as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral therapy ; the best results have been achieved by combining these two treatments.
Although approved for social phobia और posttraumatic stress disorder, sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric विकार और can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline shares the आम side effects and contraindications of other SSRIs, with high rates of nausea, diarrhea, insomnia, and sexual side effects ; however, it does not cause weight gain, and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the ड्रग थी उपस्थित in significant एकाग्रता in fetal blood, and was also associated with a higher rate of various birth defects.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline लिये अवसाद may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality.
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट टाउनसेंड, who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century Fox, the film 's main cast शामिल टाउनसेंड, माइकल राइट, Leon Robinson, Harry J. Lennix, Tico Wells, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers, and Diahann Carroll.
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells, The Temptations, Four Tops, Wilson Pickett, James Brown, Frankie Lymon, sam cooke और अन्य ) फ़ॉलो the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats.
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist, Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ), who serves as a narrator throughout the film.
However, a बहुमत of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत in a लगातार time line as opposed to traditional flash backs.
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the film 's soundtrack, including singles ऐसे as `` a दिल is a हाउस लिये प्रेम ``, `` we have n't समाप्त Yet '', and `` Nothing But Love ''.
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29, 1991 however it was not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another dvd रिलीज in 2006 लिये the फिल्मी 's 15th anniversary.
The movie received मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ from critics.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
he is माना to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the सूची url_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th सदी.
Secretariat was sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at the मर्ग in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like his प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल क्राउन विजेता सिएटल Slew.
Owned by Penny chenery, he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, and weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
A typical 12 V, 40 Ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable बैटरी that supplies electric energy to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting, lighting, प्रज्वलन ) to शक्ति the प्रारंभ मोटर, the लाइट्स, और the ignition system of a vehicle’s engine.
Automotive SLI batteries हैं प्रायः lead-acid type, and are made of six galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system.
Each cell provides 2.1 volts for a कुल of 12.6 वोल्ट at full charge.
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors, often equipped with diesel engines, may have two batteries in series लिये a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली, or may have समानांतर स्ट्रिंग्स of batteries.
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead डाइऑक्साइड, जिससे हैं submerged into an electrolyte समाधान of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water.
This causes a chemical reaction that releases electrons, allowing उन्हें to प्रवाह through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ the सामग्री of the plates, changing their surface to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into lead dioxide and lead.
With the plates restored to their original condition, the प्रक्रम may now be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need लिये संसाधन required for manufacture of new batteries, diverts toxic lead from landfills, and prevents risk of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is employment in which a व्यक्ति works a न्यूनतम क्रमांक of hours defined as such by his/her employer.
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible workers, such as annual leave, sickleave, and health insurance.
full-time कार्य are often considered careers.
They generally अदा अधिक than part-time jobs, and usually carry more hours per week.
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( flsa ) करता not define full-time employment or part-time employment.
This is a matter generally to be determined by the employer ( us विभाग of Labor ).
The definition by employer can vary and is generally प्रकाशित in a कम्पनी 's कर्मचारी हैंडबुक.
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 घंटों प्रति सप्ताह to be पारिभाषित as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits.
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on the shift the कर्मचारी जरूर work during each work week.
The `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour दिनों, commonly परोसा between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a कुल of a 36 घंटा work week.
twelve-hour शिफ्ट हैं प्रायः तीन दिनों प्रति week, unless the company has the intention of paying out the employee overtime.
ओवरटाइम is legally सशुल्क आउट anytime an employee works more than 40 hours per week.
The legal minimum for ओवरटाइम starts at Base Pay + One-Half.
The increased payout is considered to compensate slightly for the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long शिफ्ट.
Shifts can also be very irregular, as in retail, but are still full-time if the required क्रमांक of घंटों is पहुँचे.
There are some situations where a व्यक्ति जो needs full-time कार्य is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine मछली in the genus हिप्पोकैम्पस.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम और Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
the अधिनियम भी परोसा as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
माया numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the pre-columbian माया civilization.
The numerals are made up of three symbols ; zero ( शेल आकार ), one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ).
For example, thirteen is written as तीन dots in a आड़ा पंक्ति above two horizontal lines stacked above each other.
lyndon baines जॉनसन ( अगस्त 27, 1908 – जनवरी 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as LBJ, was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four लोगों जो परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त States : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961, सहित six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22, 1963, समाप्त Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right, winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों, पब्लिक प्रसारण, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' उसके coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, और अपराधों rates soared, as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक, he ended his bid for reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to succeed him.
Historians argue कि जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी marked the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians because of his domestic policies.
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन शामिल in the मादा menstrual cycle, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a क्लास of हार्मोन पुकारा progestogens, and is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's television show Sesame Street.
Officially performed by Caroll spinney चूंकि 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow bird.
He can रोलर स्केट, बर्फ skate, dance, sing, write poetry, draw and even ride a unicycle.
But despite this wide array of talents, he is prone to frequent misunderstandings, on one occasion even singing the alphabet as एक बिग long शब्द ( इससे the सोंग पुकारा `` abc-def-ghi, '' सुनाया `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
He lives in a large nest behind the 123 Sesame Street brownstone and has a teddy bear named Radar.
Webtrends is a private company headquartered in पोर्टलैंड, ऑरेगॉन, United States.
It provides web, social, and mobile analytics और अन्य तन्त्र समाधान सम्बन्धित to विपणन intelligence.
The company was संस्थापित in 1993 and now serves more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) थी the दूसरी major crusade launched from Europe.
The Second Crusade was started in response to the fall of the County of Edessa the पिछला साल to the शक्तियां of Zengi.
The county had been founded during the First Crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by baldwin of boulogne in 1098.
While it थी the पहला Crusader state to be founded, it was also the first to fall.
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III, and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings, namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany, with help from a number of other European nobles.
The armies of the दो किंग्स marched separately across Europe.
After crossing बीज़ान्टिन territory into आनातोलिया, both armies were separately defeated by the Seljuq Turks.
The main Western Christian source, Odo of Deuil, and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' प्रगति, विशेषकर in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem and, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus.
The crusade in the east was a failure लिये the crusaders और a ग्रेट victory for the Muslims.
It would ultimately have a key influence on the पतन of जेरूसलम और दे वृद्धि to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 फ्लेमिश, frisian, नॉर्मन, English, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from England, by ship, to the Holy Land, the फौज रोका और helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) पुर्तगाली army in the capture of Lisbon, expelling its Moorish occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as walmart, is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय retail corporation that runs chains of large discount department stores and warehouse stores.
The company is the world 's third largest पब्लिक निगम, according to the सौभाग्य Global 500 list in 2012, the biggest private employer in the world with over two million employees, and is the largest retailer in the world.
walmart remains a family-owned कारोबार, as the कम्पनी is नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार, जो अपना a 48 प्रतिशत हिस्सेदारी in walmart.
It is भी एक of the संसार 's most valuable companies.
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on अक्तूबर 31, 1969, और publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in Bentonville, Arkansas.
Walmart is also the largest grocery retailer in the संयुक्त राज्य.
In 2009, it generated 51 percent of its US $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from grocery कारोबार.
It भी owns और operates the sam 's Club retail warehouses in North America.
By 1988, Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the US, and by November 1990, it outsold k-mart.
By 1991 it outsold Sears in retail, making it America 's largest रिटेलर, a भेद it स्टिल holds.
Walmart has 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 देशों, अंतर्गत 55 different names.
The company operates under the Walmart name in the संयुक्त राज्य, including the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
It operates in मैक्सिको as Walmex, in the United Kingdom as Asda, in Japan as Seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It has wholly owned operations in अर्जेंटीना, ब्राज़ील, और Canada.
walmart 's निवेश बाहर उत्तर अमेरिका have था मिश्रित परिणाम : its operations in the United Kingdom, South America, and China are highly successful, whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ), was a उत्तरी आयरिश संगीतकार, सबसे widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a career डेटिंग वापस to the 1960s, मूर निभाई with artists including Phil Lynott and Brian Downey during his teens, leading him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions.
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as b.b. किंग, अल्बर्ट किंग, कोलोसियम ii, George Harrison and Greg Lake, as well as having a successful solo career.
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians, including a cameo appearance playing the सीसे गिटार सोलो on `` वो 's my baby `` इससे traveling Wilburys Vol. 3.
An उदाहरण of rack mounted servers
A web होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients, as well as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a आंकड़ा बीच.
Web hosts can also provide data center space और कनेक्टिविटी to the Internet for other servers located in their data center, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The पैमाना of वेब होस्टिंग services varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग, जहाँ फाइलें can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the वेब `` as is '' or साथ minimal processing.
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer this सेवा फ़्री to subscribers.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting from वैकल्पिक service providers.
निजी वेब साईट होस्टिंग is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting प्रायः रै a उच्चतर व्यय depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for personal web pages.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides डेटाबेस support और अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums और content management.
Also, सुरक्षित sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट, as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's reproductive tracts and their children दौरान गर्भावस्था ( prenatal काल ), प्रसव and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians हैं भी स्त्रीरोग, meaning they perform in both specialties.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, ये physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), were two American brothers, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and भवन the संसार 's पहला successful airplane and making the first controlled, powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the brothers developed their flying machine into the पहला व्यावहारिक fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the पहला to निर्माण और मक्खी प्रायोगिक aircraft, the Wright brothers were the first to invent aircraft controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The brothers ' आधारभूत भेदन थी उनके आविष्कार of three-axis control, which enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
This method became मानक और remains standard on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical work, the राइट भाइयो focused on developing a reliable method of pilot control as the key to solving `` the flying problem ''.
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the समय who put more emphasis on developing powerful engines.
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel, the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before, enabling उन्हें to डिज़ाइन और निर्माण विंग्स और propellers कि यहूद अधिक कुशल than any before.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did not claim invention of a flying machine, but rather, the invention of a system of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a उड़ती यंत्र 's सतहों.
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working for years in their shop with printing presses, bicycles, मोटर्स, और अन्य मशीनरी.
Their work with साइकिल in particular influenced their belief that an unstable vehicle like a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice.
From 1900 until उनके पहला संचालित फ़्लाइट in late 1903, they conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their skills as pilots.
Their bicycle shop employee चार्ली टेलर became an important part of the team, building their first aircraft engine in close collaboration with the brothers.
The राइट भाइयो ' औकात as inventors of the airplane has been subject to counter-claims by various parties.
Much विवाद persists over the many competing claims of early aviators.
अमेरिका 's अगला शीर्ष मॉडल, साईकिल 12 is the बारहवीं cycle of America 's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network.
It premiered on कूच 4, 2009.
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` मिलेंगी in the मोड़ें. ''
The cycle 's promotional सोंग is महिला Gaga 's `` The Fame ''.
The prizes लिये इस साईकिल are:
A modeling अनुबंध with Elite Model Management.
A fashion spread and cover in सत्रह.
A 100,000 अनुबंध with CoverGirl cosmetics.
The first half of the cycle took place in New York City, moving the show वापस इससे लॉस एंजिल्स last season.
The international destination for this साईकिल is são पाउलो, ब्राज़ील, the श्रेणी पहला visit to South America.
The number of girls was reduced to 13, the first time चूंकि साईकिल 9, बाद being maintained at 14 in the last two cycles.
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova participated as न्यायधीश.
The winner थी 20-year-old teyona Anderson from Woodstown, New Jersey.
This season averaged 4.35 लाख viewers per episode.
Exxon Mobil Corporation, or ExxonMobil, is an American multinational oil and गैस निगम headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
It is a direct descendant of John D. rockefeller 's Standard Oil company, and was formed on November 30, 1999, by the merger of Exxon and Mobil.
it is संबद्ध with Imperial Oil which operates in Canada.
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by आय और in 2013, became the largest publicly traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The कम्पनी is क्रमित # 5 globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013.
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the समाप्त of 2007 और, at then ( 2007 ) rates of production, are expected to last over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily refining capacity of, Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that was also associated with Standard आयल चूंकि इसके incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with रोज़ उत्पादन of 3.921 लाख boe ( barrels of oil equivalent ).
In 2008, this was लगभग 3 % of संसार उत्पादन, which is less than several of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
When ranked by oil और गैस reserves it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into एक of the planet’s सबसे hated corporations, able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations ''.
In terms of its environmental record, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships, ऐसे as those in chad and Equatorial Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief कार्यपालिका जबतक 2005, थी `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference at any level ''.
The company was widely criticized लिये इसके slow जवाब to cleaning its 1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska.
This article is about the Globe Theatre of शेक्सपियर.
For the modern पुनर्निर्माण in लंदन, see Shakespeare 's Globe.
For other uses, देखिए ग्लोब थिएटर ( disambiguation ).
The Globe थिएटर थी a थिएटर in लंदन associated with William Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain 's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son, निकोलस brend और पोता सर मैथ्यू Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 और बंद in 1642.
A modern पुनर्निर्माण of the ग्लोब, नामित `` Shakespeare 's Globe ``, opened in 1997 approximately from the site of the original theatre.
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 अमरीकी क्रिसमस नाटक फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by Frank Capra, based on the short story `` The Greatest Gift ``, which Philip Van Doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945.
The film is considered one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during the Christmas season, alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol.
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey, a man who has given up his dreams in order to help others and whose imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings परिचय the हस्तक्षेप of उसके संरक्षक देवदूत, क्लेरेंस odbody ( हेनरी Travers ).
Clarence shows जार्ज all the lives he has touched and how different life in his community of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff competition at the time of its release, the film has आइये to be regarded as a क्लासिक और is a staple of Christmas television around the world.
Theatrically, the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million, लगभग twice the उत्पादन लागत, a फिगर it never came close to achieving in its initial release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` हालांकि it थी नहीं the पूरा बक्सा दफ्तर विफलता that today everyone believes... it was initially a major disappointment and confirmed, at least to the studios, that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see, money-making events they once were. ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made, placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list, and would also place number one on its list of the most प्रेरणादायक अमरीकी films of सब time.
Data Warehouse अवलोकन
In computing, a आंकड़ा गोदाम or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा warehouse ( DW, DWH, or EDW ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis.
It is a central repository of data which is created by integrating आंकड़ा इससे एक or अधिक disparate sources.
Data warehouses store current as well as ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना चर्चित रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational systems ( ऐसे as विपणन, बिक्री etc., shown in the figure to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational आंकड़ा store for additional operations before they are used in the DW for reporting.
The typical ETL -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग staging, data integration, and access layers to house its key functions.
The स्टेजिंग परत or स्टेजिंग डेटाबेस stores raw data extracted from each of the disparate source data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the आंकड़ा इससे the staging layer often storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database, often called the आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस, जहाँ the आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts.
The combination of facts and dimensions is sometimes पुकारा a स्टार स्कीमा.
The अभिगम परत helps users retrieve data.
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data सोर्स प्रणालियों करता not require ETL, staging databases, or operational data store databases.
The integrated data source systems may be माना to be a भाग of a distributed operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data virtualization methods may be used to access the distributed integrated source आंकड़ा प्रणालियों to consolidate और aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse, the integrated source data systems and the data warehouse are all integrated since there is no परिवर्तन of dimensional or reference data.
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the ड्रिल bas इससे the कुल आंकड़ा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional data of the integrated source data systems.
Data warehouses can be subdivided into data marts.
Data marts store subsets of आंकड़ा इससे a गोदाम.
This definition of the data गोदाम focuses on data storage.
The main source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and made उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग by प्रबंधक और अन्य कारोबार professionals for data mining, online analytical processing, market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, and to manage the data dictionary हैं भी माना अनिवार्य components of a आंकड़ा warehousing system.
Many सन्दर्भ to आंकड़ा warehousing use this broader context.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools, tools to निकालें, रूपांतरण और लोड आंकड़ा into the repository, and tools to manage and retrieve metadata.
Portland stone quarry on the आइल of Portland, England
An abandoned construction aggregate quarry निकट एडिलेड, South Australia
A quarry is a type of open-pit mine from which rock or खनिज हैं निकाली.
Quarries are generally used for extracting building materials, ऐसे as आयाम स्टोन, निर्माण कुल, riprap, sand, and gravel.
They are often collocated with concrete and asphalt plants due to the आवश्यकता लिये विशाल amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as खोलें गड्ढे खानों.
The word quarry can include underground quarrying लिये स्टोन, ऐसे as नहाना स्टोन.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism, the principal branch of the latter दिन संत गति of restorationist christianity, जिससे began साथ the visions of जोसेफ Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s.
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham Young to कया होता become the यूटा Territory.
Today Mormons are understood to be members of The Church of यीशु मसीह of latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
Some Mormons हैं भी either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
The बीच of mormon सांस्कृतिक influence is in यूटा, and North America has more Mormons than any other continent, though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States.
mormons have विकसित a दमदार sense of communality that stems from their doctrine and history.
During the 19th सदी mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic location, and between 1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage, a form of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and संसाधन to सेवारत in उनके गिरिजाघर, और अनेक young Mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a health code that eschews alcoholic beverages, tobacco, coffee, tea, and अन्य addictive substances.
They tend to be very family-oriented, और have दमदार कनेक्शन्स आरपार पीढियां और साथ विस्तारित परिवार, परावर्तक of उनके belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity.
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity, requiring abstention इससे यौन संबंध outside of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as Christian, though some of their beliefs differ from मुख्यधारा christianity.
Mormons believe in the Bible, as well as other books of scripture, ऐसे as the Book of Mormon.
They have a unique view of cosmology, and believe that all लोगों हैं spirit-children of परमेश्वर.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the example of Jesus मसीह, और accepting उसके प्रायश्चित through ordinances such as baptism.
They believe that Christ 's church was restored through जोसेफ स्मिथ, और is हिदायत by living prophets and apostles.
Central to Mormon आस्था is the विश्वास कि परमेश्वर बोलती to his children and answers their prayers.
In वित्तीय हिसाब, assets are economic resources.
Anything tangible or intangible that is सक्षम of होने स्वामित्व or नियंत्रित to produce value and that is held to have positive economic value is considered an asset.
Simply stated, एसेट represent मान of ownership that can be converted into cash ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ).
The balance sheet of a firm records the monetaryj.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There are different methods of assessing the monetary value of the एसेट अंकित on the संतुलन चादर.
In some cases, the Historical Cost is used ; such that the value of the एसेट जब it थी खरीदा in the past is used as the monetary value.
In other उदाहरण, the उपस्थित मेला मार्केट value of the asset is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
मान of the assets owned by the firm.
It is धन and other valuables belonging to an individual or business.
Two major asset classes are ठोस एसेट और intangible assets.
ठोस एसेट contain various subclasses, including current assets and fixed assets.J.
downes, j.e. गुडमैन, `` शब्दकोष of वित्त & निवेश शर्तें '', सामन्त 's वित्तीय Guides, 2003 Current assets include inventory, while fixed assets include such items as buildings and equipment.J. Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and rights that have a मान to the कड़ क्युकी वे दे the कड़ कुछ kind of advantage in the market place.
Examples of intangible एसेट हैं साख, copyrights, trademarks, patents और कंप्यूटर programs, and financial assets, including such items as accounts receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or तंत्रिका कोशिका ) is an electrically excitable कोशिका कि processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
A रासायनिक सिग्नल occurs via a synapse, a specialized connection with other cells.
Neurons connect to each other to रूप neural networks.
Neurons हैं the कोर components of the nervous system, which includes the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral ganglia.
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch, sound, light and numerous other stimuli affecting cells of the संवेदी अंगों कि तब भेजें सिग्नल to the स्पाइनल cord and brain.
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord, cause muscle contractions, और affect glands.
Interneurons connect neurons to अन्य न्यूरॉन्स within the same region of the brain or spinal cord.
A typical neuron possesses a cell देह ( प्रायः पुकारा the सोम ), dendrites, and an axon.
dendrites हैं पतला structures कि उठता इससे the कोशिका देह, प्रायः extending for hundreds of micrometres and branching multiple times, giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree ''.
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a site called the axon hillock and travels for a distance, as far as 1 meter in इंसानो or भी अधिक in अन्य species.
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise to multiple dendrites, लकिन never to अधिक than one axon, although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates.
At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of एक न्यूरॉन to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many exceptions to ये नियम : न्यूरॉन्स कि lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons are electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically चलित आयन पंपों, जिससे combine साथ आयन चैनल्स embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, and calcium.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the function of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an कार्रवाई संभावित is उत्पन्न, जिससे ट्रेवल्स rapidly along the cell 's axon, and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives.
न्यूरॉन्स do not undergo cell division.
In most cases, neurons are उत्पन्न by खास types of stem cells.
Astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have also been observed to फेरे into न्यूरॉन्स by पुण्य of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases दौरान adulthood—but in two brain areas, the hippocampus and olfactory bulb, there is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons.
Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
The Steelers defeated the Cardinals by the स्कोर of 27–23.
The game was played on फ़रवरी 1, 2009, at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida.
With इस जीत, the स्टीलर्स became the first team to win six Super Bowls.
Pittsburgh, who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record, also won their second Super Bowl in four years after winning सुपर कटोरी xl at the समाप्त of the 2005 ऋतु.
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL title since 1947, the longest चैंपियनशिप सूखा in the league.
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season, compiling a 9–7 रिकार्ड, और the playoffs साथ the सहायता of head coach Ken Whisenhunt, who was the Steelers ' offensive coordinator in Super Bowl XL, and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner, who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team, St. Louis Rams.
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead, aided by linebacker जेम्स हैरिसन 's सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth quarter, Arizona scored 16 अनुत्तरित अंक, सहित चौड़ी receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception, to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on चौड़ी receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, सहित चार receptions for 73 yards on that final game-winning drive, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He became the छठे चौड़ी receiver to जीत the award, and also was the third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
despite the वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट और सीमित राशि of आनुषंगिक festivities that are normally held before the game, the NBC television network broadcast attracted an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers, making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point.
A diagram of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths इससे thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is thought that the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण लिये अधिक applications ).
लेजेंड
marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a परंपरागत नाम प्रयुक्त to refer to all embryophytes ( land plants ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of water ; however since ये do नहीं contain lignin, वे हैं नहीं considered to be true vascular tissue.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the नाम is सुविधाजनक and remains in use as a collective term for mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
bryophytes उपज enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ), but they produce neither flowers nor seeds, reproducing via spores.
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts जमा और चैनल्स those जमा into lending activities, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A bank is the connection between customers कि have पूंजी deficits and customers with capital surpluses.
Due to their influence within a वित्तीय प्रणाली और an अर्थव्यवस्था, बैंको are generally highly regulated in most countries.
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve banking जहाँ वे थाम तभी a छोटी आरक्षित of the निधि deposited and lend out the rest for profit.
They are generally subject to न्यूनतम पूंजी आवश्यकताएँ जिससे हैं आधारित on an अंतरराष्ट्रीय set of capital standards, known as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena, headquartered in सियेना, इटली, जिससे रै महरूम ऑपरेटिंग continuously since 1472.
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of स्वीडन ( 1668 ).
Banking in its modern sense evolved in rich शहरों of पुनर्जागरण इटली, ऐसे as Florence, Venice and Genoa.
In the history of banking, a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici, Fugger, Welser, Berenberg, Baring and Rothschild —have निभाई a सेंट्रल भूमिका over many centuries.
The Xbox is a वीडियो खेल कंसोल manufactured by Microsoft.
It was released on November 15, 2001 in उत्तर अमेरिका, फ़रवरी 22, 2002 in Japan, and March 14, 2002 in Australia and Europe.
It was Microsoft 's first foray into the गेमिंग कंसोल मार्केट.
As part of the sixth-generation of गेमिंग, the एक्सबॉक्स competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2, Sega 's Dreamcast ( which stopped American sales before the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
The Xbox was the first console offered by an American company बाद the atari जैगुआर रोका बिक्री in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in नवम्बर 2002 allowed players to play games online with a broadband connection.
It first competed with Dreamcast 's online सेवा लकिन बाद primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's online service.
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a सब्सक्रिप्शन, as खूब as broadband-only कनेक्शन जिससे थी नहीं completely adopted yet, Xbox Live was a success due to better servers, features such as a buddy list, and milestone titles like Halo 2 released in November 2004, which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years.
Xbox 's successor, the Xbox 360, was launched in नवम्बर 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in Japan where sales were poor.
It was discontinued in late 2006 in Europe and early 2007 in North America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006, and the last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008.
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on कूच 2, 2009, stating कि कोई in-warranty मरम्मत अभी needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox अभिगम to एक्सबॉक्स सजीव was stopped on April 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the इन्जील of जॉन or बस जॉन और प्रायः referred to in New Testament scholarship as the Fourth Gospel, is an account of the public ministry of Jesus.
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the Baptist and concludes with the death, burial, क़यामत, और post-resurrection दिखावे of Jesus.
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics Matthew, Mark and Luke.
states that the book derives from the testimony of the ' शिष्य whom Jesus loved. '
Along with पीटर, the unnamed disciple is especially close to Jesus, and early-church tradition identified him as John the Apostle, one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that टीकाकारों दावत the चार किताबे साथ, yet, according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों, John was not the author of any of these books.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and more has लगाई जॉन भीतर a first-century यहूदी कॉन्टेक्स्ट.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the विकास of the परंपरा from which the gospel arose.
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time जब the इन्जील थी लिखा.
It is notable कि, in the इन्जील, the community still appears to define itself primarily against Judaism, rather than as part of a wider Christian church.
Though christianity प्रारंभ as a गति भीतर judaism, gradually Christians and Jews became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, अर्थ कि it describes यीशु as the अवतार of the divine Logos through whom all things were made, as the object of veneration, and more explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John does Jesus talk at length about himself and his divine role, प्रायः साझा with the disciples only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on different miracles ( including resurrecting Lazarus ), दिए as लक्षण meant to engender faith.
Synoptic elements such as parables और exorcisms हैं नहीं found in John.
It presents a realized eschatology in which salvation is already उपस्थित for the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were ten calamities that, according to the biblical Book of Exodus, Israel 's God, Yahweh, inflicted upon Egypt to राजी pharaoh to रिलीज the ill-treated israelites from slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated बाद the दसवाँ plague, triggering the Exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to कंट्रास्ट the शक्ति of yahweh with the impotence of Egypt 's various gods.
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues with judgment on specific देवताओं संबद्ध साथ the nile, प्रजनन and natural phenomena.
The plagues of Egypt are also mentioned in the कुरान ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the Book of exodus, परमेश्वर proclaims that all the gods of Egypt will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's पेंटिंग of the plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying खेल ) is a खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी assume the भूमिकाएँ of characters in a fictional setting.
Players take responsibility for acting out these भूमिकाएँ भीतर a कथा, either through literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making or character development.
Actions taken within many games succeed or fail according to a औपचारिक system of rules and guidelines.
There are several forms of आरपीजी.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through discussion, whereas in live action role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
In both of these forms, an arranger पुकारा a खेल निपुण ( GM ) usually decides on the rules and setting to be used and acts as referee, while each of the other players plays the role of a single character.
Several किस्में of आरपीजी भी मौजूद in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मीडिया, such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing वीडियो खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी कंट्रोल a character or team who undertake quests, and may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics.
These games often share settings and rules with tabletop RPGs, लकिन emphasize अक्षर उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling.
Despite this variety of forms, some game forms such as trading card games and wargames that are related to role-playing games may not be included.
Role-playing activity may sometimes be उपस्थित in such games, but it is not the primary focus.
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in शिक्षण, प्रशिक्षण, और अकादमिक research.
The American Civil War ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate सिविल युद्ध.
Eight remaining slave राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, and both sides prepared for war.
The confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and स्थापित a नवल blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी नदी.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War थी एक of the earliest सच्चा industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
The definition of the world 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट by the Airports Council International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines and measures the following three types of airport traffic:
Passenger traffic : total passengers emplaned and deplaned, passengers in पारगमन गिने once
कार्गो ट्रैफ़िक : loaded and unloaded freight and mail in metric tonnes
ट्रैफ़िक आंदोलनों : अवतरण and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the संसार War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
इटली और बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of कामयाब offensives और American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor राज्य of the पूर्व two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect, considered the largest आकस्मिक समुद्री आयल spill in the इतिहास of the पेट्रोलियम उद्योग, अनुमानित to be between 8 % और 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion और डूब of the deepwater क्षितिज oil rig, which claimed 11 lives, a sea-floor oil gusher flowed unabated for 87 days, until it was capped on 15 July 2010.
The total discharge is estimated at.
A massive जवाब ensued to protect समुद्रतट, वेटलैंड्स और मुहानों from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several विफल प्रयत्न to contain the प्रवाह, the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010.
Some reports indicate the well site continues to लीक.
Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities, extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats, fishing and tourism industries, and human health problems have continued through 2013.three सालो बाद the spill, तारकोल balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the विस्फोट और record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. सरकारी 's सितंबर 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well, faulting mostly BP, but also well operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा प्रणाली, लकिन भी concluded कि the spill resulted इससे `` प्रणालीगत '' रूट कल्याणकारी और `` अनुपस्थित significant reform in both industry practices and government policies, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, bp और the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of इंसाफ settled संघीय दण्ड आरोप साथ BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress.
BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its safety practices and आचार, और the पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा एजेंसी घोषित that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government.
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 अरब in जुर्माना और अन्य भुगतान लकिन further विधिक कार्यवाही not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment.
As of February 2013, दण्ड और civil settlements and payments to a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion.
`` Where the Streets Have No नाम '' is a song by rock band U2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The जोशुआ पेड़ और थी released as the album 's third single in August 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating गिटार arpeggio using a delay effect, played during the song 's introduction and again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the गली on जिससे वे जिया, particularly in Belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the song, निर्माता ब्रायन eno माना erasing the सोंग 's टेपों to have them start from scratch.
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics and became a commercial success, peaking at number thirteen in the US, number fourteen in Canada, number ten in the नीदरलैंड्स, और क्रमांक चार in the संयुक्त किंगडम.
The song has become one of the band 's most popular songs and has remained a staple of their live act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour.
The song was notably performed on a लॉस एंजिल्स छत लिये the फिल्मांकन of इसके म्यूज़िक वीडियो, जिससे won a Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video.Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
थामस जेफरी `` tom '' हैंक्स ( born जुलाई 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, producer, writer, and director.
Hanks is known for his roles in Apollo 13, बिग, कि बात तुम Do !
, The Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie Wilson 's War, Catch Me If You can, फॉरेस्ट गंप, डाल दूर, a लीग of उनके अपना, the da विंची कोड, फ़रिश्ते & राक्षसों, as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous पुरस्कार दौरान उसके करियर, सहित जीतना a सुनहरी ग्लोब लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका in फिलाडेल्फिया and a Golden Globe, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump, and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
Hanks is also known for his collaboration with film director Steven स्पिलबर्ग on छायांकन निजी रयान और the mini-series बैंड of भाइयो, जिससे शुभारम्भ हैंक्स भी as a successful director, producer and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 अरब at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर अलोन, और over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the highest all-time box office star.
The Cape is an अमरीकी सुपरहीरो drama series.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning with a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे, जनवरी 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time.
An encore played on सोमवार, जनवरी 10, with follow-up episodes continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total क्रमांक of एपीसोड to be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of low ratings.
On March 2, 2011, NBC announced कि the श्रेणी finale would only be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth, and thus the only naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more spectacular, लकिन होगा appear तभी एकबार in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have महरूम observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, Babylonian, and medieval European chroniclers, but were not पहचाना as reappearances of the वही ऑब्जेक्ट at the time.
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer edmond हैली, बाद whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the भीतरी सौर System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` गंदा snowball '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, और कि तभी a छोटी portion of it is icy.
The following is a सूची of the सबसे populous incorporated places of the United States of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, सहित city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated स्थान.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties कि हैं नहीं a भाग of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits, which does not include अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों within urban agglomerations.
A अलग रैंकिंग is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan area populations.
The mayflower थी the जलयान that in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims, including a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is एक of travail और survival in a harsh New World environment.
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a shot on goal against कैमरून in the 2011 फीफा u-20 संसार कप.
Forwards, also known as strikers, are the players on a team in association फ़ुटबॉल जो खेल निकटतम to the opposing टोली 's लक्ष्य, and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals.
This very advanced position and its limited defensive जिम्मेदारियों औसत आगे normally score more goals than other players.
This position requires intelligence, गति, और शक्ति, दोनो of निष्पादन और of thought, to perform the role well.
Modern team formations usually include एक to तीन आगे ; दो is the most common.
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced position ( the centre आगे ), और another attacking आगे जो plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ).
it चाहिए be विख्यात that inside forwards develop from attacking midfield positions and hence are naturally midfielders.
Barcelona FC star Lionel मेस्सी is a ठेठ attacking मिडफील्डर seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy.
a कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू साझेदारी is a विधिक relationship available to same-sex couples, and to certain opposite-sex couples in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, and benefits, और... the वही जिम्मेदारियों, दायित्वों, and duties under law... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the domestic साझेदारी रजिस्ट्री was the first of its kind in the United States created by a legislature without court intervention.
Initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner.
the विधानमंडल रै चूंकि विस्तारित the पैमाना of California domestic partnerships to include all of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage.
As such, California domestic partnerships are functionally समतुल्य to सिविल संघ offered in अनेक अन्य states.
Although the program enjoys broad support in California, it has been the सोर्स of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the विस्तार of घरेलू partnerships in court.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate लकिन बराबर '' जातिगत कानून of the जिम Crow era.
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball coach, और पूर्व खिलाड़ी जो is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA.
A point guard from St. John 's विश्वविद्यालयों, he निभाई लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los Angeles Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Toronto Raptors, Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a commentator for ईएसपीएन और ABC alongside his former coach Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen.
He was previously an NBA analyst for The YES संजाल 's नई जर्सी नेट खेल.
South Africa has ग्यारह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : Afrikaans, English, Ndebele, Northern Sotho, Sotho, Swazi, Tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two प्रतिशत of दक्षिण africans बोलो a first language other than an official one.
सबसे दक्षिण Africans can speak more than one language.
Dutch and English यहूद the पहला आधिकारिक languages of South Africa from 1910 to 1925.
अफ्रीकी was added as a part of Dutch in 1925.
Dutch थी replaced by अफ्रीकी जब दक्षिण Africa became a republic in 1961, and Dutch was dropped in 1983, so between 1983 and 1994, South Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ), Setswana, English, Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ), Xitsonga, Siswati, Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ).
In South Africa, Southern Ndebele is ज्ञात बस as ndebele, as most speakers of Northern Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa, but the 1996 संस्करण referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different सरकारी departments and official bodies use different terms to denote Northern Sotho.
The main language of सरकारी is अंग्रेज़ी भी if South Africans often take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans also features prominently in कॉमर्स साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी as the languages with the highest number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In terms of linguistic classification, the आधिकारिक भाषाएं शामिल दो West-Germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu, Xhosa, Swati and Ndebele ) and three are sotho–tswana भाषाएं ( उत्तरी Sotho, Southern Sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga language.
South अफ़्रीकी चिह्न भाषा is a पृथक though incompletely emerged national standard language which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric acid, existing normally as a crystalline hydrate, most commonly as एल्युमिनियम नाइट्रेट nonahydrate, al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The New York Jets are a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The टोली is a सदस्य of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
In a unique arrangement for the league, the jets share metlife स्टेडियम in East Rutherford, New Jersey with the New York Giants.
The मताधिकार is legally and corporately registered as New York Jets, LLC.
The team was founded in 1959 as the Titans of New York, an original member of the American Football League ; बाद, the मताधिकार joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger.
The team began to खेल in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new ownership, the current name was adopted in 1963 and the franchise was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and तब to the meadowlands खेल Complex in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first समय in 1968 और गई on to compete in सुपर Bowl III where they defeated the Baltimore Colts, becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game.
Since 1968, the jets have appeared in the playoffs तेरह टाइम्स, और in the AFC Championship Game four times, most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010.
However, the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance, along with the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो और tampa खाड़ी buccaneers.
The टोली 's प्रशिक्षण सुविधा, अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य Jets Training Center, which opened in 2008, is located in Florham Park.
The team currently holds उनके सालाना प्रशिक्षण शिविर सत्र on the campus of the State University of New York at Cortland in Cortland, New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex.
Psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also known as psychedelic mushrooms, are fungi कि contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin मशरूम, the सबसे आम being shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia, Galerina, gerronema, gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, mycena, panaeolus, pluteus, and Psilocybe.
There are लगभग 190 प्रजाति of psilocybin mushrooms and most of them fall in the genus Psilocybe.
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely been used since prehistoric टाइम्स और may have महरूम चित्रित in चट्टान आर्ट.
Many cultures have प्रयुक्त ये मशरूम in religious rites.
In modern Western society they are प्रयुक्त recreationally लिये उनके साइकेडेलिक effects.
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins स्कूल of Medicine conclude that when used properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent, with the international boundary with कनाडा to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर, और the प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United राज्य by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th तनिक populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live भीतर the anchorage महानगर area.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil, natural gas, and fishing industries ; it रै ये संसाधन in प्रचुरता.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at लगभग दो सेंट प्रति एकड़ ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several प्रशासनिक परिवर्तन पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the mainland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word derived from the वही रूट.
the 101 फ्रेंच विभाग are divided into 342 arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts.
The capital of an arrondissement/district is पुकारा a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the प्रीफ़ेक्चर ( पूंजी ) of the विभाग, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further विभाजित into cantons and communes.
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract जिससे is a sex अंग और रै दो प्रमुख कृत्यों ; यौन मैथुन and childbirth.
In humans, this passage leads from the opening of the vulva to the uterus ( womb ), लकिन the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
Unlike men, who have only one genital orifice, महिलाओं have दो, the urethra और the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral खोलने, और दोनो उद्घाटन हैं सुरक्षित by the labia.
The inner mould of the योनि रै a foldy texture which can create friction for the penis during intercourse.
दौरान arousal, the योनि gets moist to facilitate the entrance of the penis.
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
colloquially, the शब्द योनि is often used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general.
However, by its dictionary and anatomical परिभाषाएं, योनि refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The सिनसिनाटी लाल हैं a Major League Baseball team based in Cincinnati, Ohio.
They are members of the National लीग सेंट्रल प्रभाग.
Established in 1881 as an independent क्लबों, the टोली became a चार्टर सदस्य of the American Association in 1882, and joined the National League in 1890.
The club traditionally traces its उत्पत्ति to बेसबॉल 's first openly professional team in 1869.
The Reds have won five World Series titles, one American Association pennant, nine नेशनल लीग pennants और टेन प्रभाग titles.
The Reds played in the National League West between 1969 and 1993 और have महरूम in the National League Central since 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have played at Great American Ball Park, built next to उनके घर इससे 1970 to 2002, riverfront स्टेडियम.
Bob Castellini has owned the Cincinnati Reds चूंकि 2006.
A शरारत बदबू bomb.
A stink bomb is a यंत्र designed to बनाएँ an unpleasant smell.
They range in effectiveness from simple pranks to सैन्य grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The Guinness Book of रिकॉर्ड सूचियाँ दो smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government Standard बाथरूम malodor '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ रसायन साथ a stench resembling इंसान मल, तभी much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
Another one, `` Who me ? ``, is a mixture of five sulfur-containing chemicals and खुश्बू जैसे rotting खाना और carcasses.
The adage `` A picture is worth a thousand words '' refers to the ख़्याल कि a जटिल idea can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It also aptly characterizes एक of the प्रमुख लक्ष्य of visualization, namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly.
The expression `` Use a चित्र.
It 's worth a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing पत्रकारिता और publicity.
1913 समाचारपत्र advertisement
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 newspaper विज्ञापन लिये the piqua स्वचालित सप्लाई House of Piqua, Ohio.
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper advertisement for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is लायक a हजार शब्द the सैन अंतोनियो लाइट 's सचित्र पत्रिका of the युद्ध exemplifies the सच्चाई of the ऊपर बयान -- judging इससे the गरम रिसेप्शन it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers.
It is believed by कुछ कि the आधुनिक उपयोग of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the advertising trade journal Printers ' Ink, promoting the use of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad entitled, `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 समस्या साथ the phrase `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words, '' where it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of Proverbs, Maxims, and Familiar Phrases उद्धरण बर्नार्ड as saying he पुकारा it `` a चाइनीज कहावत, so that people would take it seriously. ''
Soon after, the proverb would become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words '' wan येन i hua और 10.000 मील लायक 10.000 किताबे is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A picture is लायक a हजार words
Despite this modern origin of the लोकप्रिय phrase, the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers.
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 ), `` a चित्र shows me at a glance what it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me अपना flowcharts और छिपाते अपना टेबल, और i shall continue to be mystified.
Show me your tables, and I won’t प्रायः need अपना flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John McCarthy, the famous कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक, to मेक the विपरीत पाइंट : `` as the Chinese say, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by changes in weather, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the वार्षिक क्रान्ति of the धरती around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि reaches the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is उजागर to अधिक सीधा धूप because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is true of the southern hemisphere in November, December और जनवरी.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the सूर्य to be higher in the sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, जून, जुलाई और अगस्त हैं the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists ज़्यादातर उपयोग a छह ऋतु model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु, और in कुछ tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, special `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons, चित्रित in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch निर्यात in 2006
At the time of writing the नीदरलैंड्स is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( see : List of देशों by जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the world ( see : List of countries by GDP ( ppp ) प्रति capita ).
Between 1996 and 2000 annual आर्थिक विकास ( GDP ) averaged over 4 %, well above the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part of the global economic slowdown.
2006 and 2007 however showed आर्थिक विकास of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the ongoing global financial crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis.
Several banks went दिवालिया, and a number of others had to receive governmental aid.
In 2009 the economy अस्वीकृत साथ 3.5 %, followed by two years of mild growth.
The Dutch economy is currently in a recession again, साथ an आर्थिक मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
Unemployment has been relatively low compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the तीन major credit rating agencies.
Historically, the डच introduced और invented the भण्डार मार्केट by the merchandise trading through Dutch West India Company.
The नीदरलैंड्स is a founding सदस्य of the European Union, the OECD and the World Trade Organization.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio album and sixth स्टुडियो एल्बम by Tupac Shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by Shakur before his death in 1996.
Released in the United States on December 14, 2004 ( दिसम्बर 12 in the संयुक्त Kingdom ), Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem.
The original panel of the दृश्य ; मेरेडिथ Vieira, Star Jones, Debbie Matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997.
The View is an American talk दिखाएँ ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी कि debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime programming block.
Created by Barbara Walters and विधेयक geddie, जो दोनो भी serve as the show 's executive producers, the program features a panel of women as co-hosts.
Along with Walters, the current panel includes Whoopi Goldberg, who serves as the मॉडरेटर, आनन्द behar, एलिज़ाबेथ hasselbeck, और sherri Shepherd.
International versions of the कार्यक्रम are aired in several countries.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, The View is the fourth-longest running नेशनल दिन बात दिखाएँ in इतिहास, behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ), और the ओपरा Winfrey Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly पुकारा bitter-berry, chokecherry, वर्जिनिया बर्ड चेरी और पश्चिमी chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent, except for the far north and far south.
Los एंजिल्स अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र serving the Greater Los Angeles Area, the second-most populated metropolitan area in the United States.
It is most often referred to by its IATA विमानक्षेत्र कोड lax, साथ the letters pronounced individually.
LAX is located in southwestern Los एंजिल्स साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of westchester, इससे the downtown core and is the primary airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, lax थी the छठे व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in the संसार बाद hartsfield-jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, Beijing Capital International Airport, London Heathrow Airport, Chicago O'Hare International Airport, and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest origin and गंतव्य ( o & d ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 that involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is also the तभी विमानक्षेत्र to रैंक among the top five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo traffic.
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, but other airports including Bob Hope Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, la/ontario अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region.
LAX is also the busiest airport in California and the West Coast of the United States in terms of flight operations, passenger traffic and air cargo activity, अग्रणी it to be referred to as the `` गेटवे to the प्रशांत Rim ``.
Peyton विलियम्स मैनिंग ( born कूच 24, 1976 ) is an American football quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He played for the Indianapolis Colts for 14 सीज़न from 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an elder bhai of नई यॉर्क दिग्गज quarterback Eli Manning.
Manning played college football for the University of Tennessee, अग्रणी the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the no. 2 नेब्रास्का cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom Osborne their 3rd national championship in 4 years.
He was chosen by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall pick in the 1998 एनएफएल Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the कोल्टस to आठ ( सात afc दक्षिण and one AFC East ) division championships, two AFC championships, and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He has won a record four league most valuable player awards, was the most valuable player of सुपर कटोरी xli, रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले, रै बारह 4,000-yard गुजर seasons, and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the best player in the एनएफएल और फॉक्स खेल साथ साथ खेल illustrated named him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s.
In May 2011, he underwent गर्दन सर्जरी to alleviate गर्दन पीड़ा और भुजा कमज़ोरी he dealt with during the previous few seasons before signing a five-year, $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011.
मैनिंग था hoped to खेल in the 2011 season, but in September 2011, he underwent a much more serious second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure.
मैनिंग था never छूटी an एनएफएल खेल in his career, but was forced to miss the entire 2011 season.
He was released by the कोल्टस on कूच 7, 2012, और after an almost two-week period where he visited with and worked out for several NFL teams, he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20, 2012.
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the उपनाम, `` the शेरिफ '' और is एक of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to Manning using an array of gestures and verbal commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
The America Tower of the American General Center, the मुख्यालय of बेकर Hughes
Baker ह्यूजेस is एक of the संसार 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 देशों, providing the oil and gas industry with products and services for drilling, formation evaluation, completion, production and reservoir consulting.
बेकर ह्यूजेस रै इसके मुख्यालय in the अमेरिका Tower in the American General Center in Neartown, Houston.
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker International and ह्यूजेस औजार कम्पनी merged in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates विश्वव्यापी साथ प्रमुख कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल, संयुक्त किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और maintenance facility in Celle, Germany ; Lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, Texas ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The company is administered broadly in दो बांटती : the पूर्वी गोलार्ध साथ five regions ( Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada, US Land, US Gulf, and Latin America ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into markets.
The United States one- cent coin, commonly known as a penny, is a unit of currency equaling एक one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
The cent 's प्रतीक is ¢.
Its obverse has featured the profile of President Abraham Lincoln since 1909, the centennial of his birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the रिवर्स प्रदर्शित the lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th जन्मदिवस और a नई, permanent reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter and 0.061 इंच ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
the u.S. मिंट 's official name for a penny is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official name is `` one cent piece ''.
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the वही नाम, the pre-decimal संस्करण of which had a similar value.
In American English, pennies is the plural form, other plural फ़ॉर्म पेंस और पेशाब ( मानक उपयोग in अंग्रेजों English ) are not used.
As of 2012, it costs the U.S. Mint 2.00 cents to make a cent because of the cost of materials and production.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components for वितरण और fabrication, estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead allocated to the penny, जिससे थी $ 17.7 million for 2011.
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by other circulating सिक्के बगैर the penny.
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent coin in the United राज्य लिये the साल of 2012 थी $ 58,000,000.
This was a slight decrease from 2011, the year before, which था a उत्पादन घाटा of $ 60,200,000.
or more specifically, हैं शोभायमान किस्में of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.
Koi varieties are distinguished by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
Some of the major रंगों हैं श्वेत, ब्लैक, रेड, yellow, blue, and cream.
The most popular category of koi is the Gosanke, which is made up of the kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, and Showa Sanshoku varieties.
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the संघीय सरकारी, परिचय 5,000 कर्मचारी of the District of Columbia, and a few hundred private sector employees, mostly in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- postal federal employees and the largest संघ लिये ज़िला of कोलंबिया कर्मचारी जो रपट directly to the mayor ( i.e., outside of D.C. public schools ).
It is संबद्ध with the AFL-CIO.
A late सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
Green : A spore tetrad.
Blue : a spore bearing a trilete mark – the -shaped scar.
The spores are about 30-35 μm आरपार
The एवोल्यूशन of पौधे रै resulted in increasing स्तर of complexity, from the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive, especially in the environments in which they evolved, for a समय प्रत्येक नई ग्रेड of संगठन became अधिक `` कामयाब '' than its predecessors.
In the ordovician काल, around, the first land plants appeared.
These began to diversify in the late Silurian काल, around, और the परिणाम of their diversification are displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved early पौधे in सेल्यूलर विवरण, petrified in volcanic springs.
By the मध्य of the devonian काल, सबसे of the features recognised in plants today are present, including roots, leaves and secondary wood ; and, by late Devonian times, seeds had evolved.
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a उपाधि of परिष्कार कि अनुमत उन्हें to form forests of tall trees.
Evolutionary innovation continued into the carboniferous period and is still ongoing today.
Most plant groups were relatively unscathed by the Permo-Triassic extinction इवेंट, हालांकि the structures of समुदायों बदला.
This may have set the scene for the रूप of the flowering पौधे in the triassic ( ~ ), और their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major समूह of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became important in the mid-Paleogene, from around.
The grasses, as खूब as अनेक other groups, evolved new mechanisms of metabolism to survive the low and warm, dry conditions of the tropics over the last.
The winning सुपर Bowl team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the चैंपियन of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
The contest is held in an अमरीकी नगर कि is चुनी तीन to चार सालो beforehand, usually in warm-weather or domed sites.
Since 1971, the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) Championship Game has faced the winner of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) चैंपियनशिप खेल in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the National Football League ( NFL ), the two leagues met in four such contests.
The first two यहूद ज्ञात as the `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker, the names `` सुपर कटोरी i `` और `` सुपर कटोरी ii `` यहूद retroactively applied to the first two games.
The nfc /nfL लीड in सुपर Bowl wins with 25, while the AFC /AFL has won 22.
अठारह अलग franchises, including teams that relocated to another city, have won the Super Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super प्याले साथ छह championships ( रिकार्ड 6–2 ), जबकि दोनो the डलास cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five wins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super Bowl appearances with eight, जबकि the भैंस बिल्स have the सबसे लगातार दिखावे साथ चार losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
the नई इंग्लैण्ड Patriots, Denver Broncos and Minnesota Vikings have also lost a record four Super Bowls.
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4, Denver is 2–4 and New इंग्लैण्ड is 3–4.
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers, the 1972-73 मियामी डॉल्फिन, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the तभी टोली to accomplish this feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only team with अनेक सुपर कटोरी दिखावे और no नुकसान is the Baltimore Ravens, who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a सुपर कटोरी, सहित मताधिकार relocations और renaming : the Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Jacksonville Jaguars, and Houston Texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
Martin County is a county located in the u.S. राज्य of Texas.
As of the 2010 census, its जनसांख्यिकी थी 4,799.
Its seat is stanton.
The county is नामित लिये wylie Martin, an early settler.
मार्टिन काउंटी is one of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना फास्फेट समूह इससे अनेक प्रकार of अणुओं, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The process of removing the फास्फेट समूह is called dephosphorylation.
As the name suggests, alkaline phosphatases are most effective in an क्षारीय पर्यावरण.
It is sometimes used synonymously as मौलिक phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories during the late 19th century.
The grain was originally करवाया in स्कॉटलैंड and Sweden.
Commercially available triticale is almost सदा a दूसरी पीढी संकर, i.e., a cross between two kinds of primary ( first cross ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality of गेहूं साथ the बीमारी और पर्यावरणीय सहिष्णुता ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
Only recently has it been विकसित into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can अधिक or कम resemble either of its parents.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, although some triticale-based foods can be खरीदा at health food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals.
When crossing wheat and rye, wheat is used as the मादा जनक और rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ).
the resulting संकर is बंध्य, और must be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce itself.
The primary producers of triticale हैं Poland, Germany, France, Belarus and Australia.
In 2009, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ), 15.0 लाख टन यहूद harvested in 29 देशों आरपार the संसार.
the triticale संकरण हैं सब amphidiploid, which means the plant is diploid for two genomes derived from different species.
In other words, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, सबसे कार्य थी किया on octoploid triticale.
Different ploidy levels have महरूम निर्मित और evaluated over time.
The tetraploids showed little promise, but hexaploid triticale थी कामयाब पर्याप्त to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक application.
The CIMMYT triticale सुधार कार्यक्रम चाही to improve food production and nutrition in developing countries.
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other food products, such as कुकीज़, पास्ता, पिज़्ज़ा dough and breakfast cereals.
The protein content is higher than that of wheat, although the glutenin भिन्न is less.
The grain has also been stated to have higher स्तर of lysine than गेहूं.
Assuming increased acceptance, the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale, as the milling techniques employed लिये गेहूं हैं मुलम्मा to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be प्रयुक्त as a फीड अनाज, और बाद research found its starch was particularly readily digested.
As a feed grain, triticale is already खूब स्थापित and of high economic importance.
It has received attention as a potential उर्जा क्रॉप, और research is currently being conducted on the use of the crop 's biomass in bioethanol production.
`` Puff, the जादू ड्रैगन '' is a सोंग लिखा by लियोनार्ड lipton and Peter Yarrow, and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter, Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording.
The सोंग achieved great popularity.
A college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate play in the United States, currently the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) Division I Football कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ), is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly Division i-a ) फ़ुटबॉल is the तभी ncaa खेल in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
क्युकी the चैंपियनशिप team is not determined by a NCAA championship or tournament event, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship ``.
चूंकि the ncaa, the खेल 's शासी देह, does not determine or declare a national champion in this field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A championship team is independently declared by various individuals and संगठन, प्रायः referred to as `` चयनकर्ताओं ''.
These choices हैं sometimes at odds with each other.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual championship team, it has documented the चुनाव of अनेक चयनकर्ताओं in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records.
In addition, various third party analysts have independently प्रकाशित उनके अपना सूचियाँ of कया वे have संकल्पित to be the most legitimate selections for each season.
These are also often at odds with each other as well as व्यक्तिगत स्कूल 's दावा on नेशनल championships, which, for any particular season, may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
Currently, two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press, which conducts a poll of football sportswriters, and the USA Today Coaches ' Poll, a पोल of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच संघ active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion.
The Milwaukee Brewers हैं a पेशेवर baseball team based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The team is a member of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of प्रमुख League Baseball 's National League and plays its home games at Miller Park.
The team is so नामित क्युकी of the city 's association with the brewing industry.
The Washington नागरिकों हैं a पेशेवर baseball team based in Washington, D.C.
The Nationals are a member of the East Division of the National लीग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is Nationals Park, located on South कैपिटल गली in southeast d.C., near the Anacostia River.
The park opened in 2008, replacing RFK Stadium, the team 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' name derives from the former Washington baseball team that had the वही नाम ( प्रयुक्त interchangeably with Senators ).
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened version that was also प्रयुक्त by the बूढ़ा D.C. teams.
An expansion franchise, the club was संस्थापित in as the मॉन्ट्रियल Expos, the first major league team in Canada.
They were आधारित in Montreal, Quebec, and played their home games at Jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium.
In, the Expos won a division championship, won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies, 3–2, and advanced to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी, जहाँ वे होता go on to खोना to the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स, 3–2, in उनके only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season.
The Expos had their highest winning percentage in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, जब the team had the best record in baseball.
The team 's subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused fan interest to drop off.
After the 2001 season, MLB considered revoking the team 's मताधिकार, along with either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
After being purchased by MLB in 2002, the team was moved before the ऋतु to वॉशिंगटन और renamed the Nationals, the first relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, and became the Texas Rangers in.
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises, and the तभी एक in the नेशनल लीग, कि has never played in a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is कोई शुल्क लिये सेवाएं provided जहाँ the शुल्क is payable only if there is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's services only if the मुकदमा is कामयाब or is favorably settled out of court....
निर्भर शुल्क हैं प्रायः गणना as a percentage of the client 's net recovery. ''
In the English legal system, it is generally referred to as no win no fee.
A conditional शुल्क अनुबंध between a law firm and a client.
The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor होगा लो a विधि मामला on the understanding that if lost, no payment is made.
However, if the मामला is जीती, the वकील will be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly billing, plus a success fee.
The success fee in England must be as a percentage no वृहद than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US, which देता the कामयाब attorney a प्रतिशत of the damages awarded in favor of his client.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise, to sue someone for a tort, one must first be wealthy enough to pursue ऐसे litigation in the first place.
however, क्युकी of the high risk, few attorneys will take cases on a contingency basis unless they feel the case has good merit.
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following countries : Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Dominican Republic, France, Greece, आयरलैंड, जापानी, नई जीलैंड, the संयुक्त Kingdom and the United States.
They are also allowed in personal चोट क्रियाएँ in Lithuania.
Recently, वे have महरूम allowed in Belgium as well.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of people formally समवेत लिये a खास purpose.
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle क्लबों ऑपरेटिंग in आकर्षक, a fictional कस्बा in कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's सेंट्रल Valley.
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' Teller ( Charlie hunnam ), the then-vice अध्यक्ष of the क्लबों, जो begins questioning the club and himself.
Sons of Anarchy premiered on September 3, 2008, on cable network FX.
The third season of the series attracted an average of 4.9 million viewers per week, making it FX 's highest rated series ever, surpassing fx 's अन्य हिट्स the शील्ड, nip/tuck, and Rescue Me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of Anarchy was renewed for two additional सीज़न, a पांचवां और a छठे.
Those involved in the production of the श्रेणी imply कि a सातवाँ and final season is creator Kurt Sutter 's plan.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) and the volcano of the वही नाम हैं in south-east Iceland.
They हैं in the हाइलैंड्स of Iceland at the northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The झीलों हैं at, at an elevation of.
Beneath the lakes is the मैग्मा कक्ष of the grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest eruption frequency of सब the ज्वालामुखी in आइसलैंड और रै a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the वही फिशर system.
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same time as laki दौरान 1783, लकिन जारी to erupt until 1785.
Because most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull, most of its eruptions have been subglacial और the बातचीत of मैग्मा और meltwater इससे the बर्फ कल्याणकारी phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC, an eruption began, with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes, resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in आइसलैंड, और in the संयुक्त किंगडम, ग्रीनलैंड, जर्मनी, आयरलैंड और नार्वे on 22–25 May.
Until 25 May the eruption scale had been larger than कि of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.
The eruption रोका at 02:40 utc on 25 May 2011, although there was some explosive activity from the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a background check on किसी पहले offering उन्हें नियुक्ति, conferring an award, etc.
A prospective व्यक्ति or प्रोजेक्ट may be vetted before making a hiring decision.
In addition, in intelligence महफ़िल, एसेट हैं vetted to determine their usefulness.
Former मुख्यालय and current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public gaming corporation that owns and operates over 50 कसीनो, होटल, और सात गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम अंतर्गत several brands.
The company, आधारित in स्वर्ग, Nevada, is the largest gaming company in the world, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a संयुक्त venture of अपोलो वैश्विक प्रबन्धन and Texas Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant stake.
The name change from `` Harrah 's entertainment Inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23, 2010.
harrah 's remains a key brand in the company.
On November 5, 2010, Harrah 's announced an initial public offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November 19.
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person जो is नहीं a कनाडाई नागरिक लकिन जो रै महरूम granted permission to live and work in Canada without any time limit on his or her stay.
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years आउट of प्रत्येक पाँच or रिस्क खोने that status.
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same अधिकारों और जिम्मेदारियों as a कनाडाई नागरिक, among अन्य the सही to कार्य लिये कोई एंटरप्राइज़ as खूब as for the federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ).
The main differences are that निवासियों can नहीं :
vote in चुनावों in Canada ;
चलाएं लिये elected office ;
थाम कनाडाई passports ;
In addition, they may be allowed to join Canada 's armed forces if the नेशनल ब्याज would not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also risk प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर अपराधों committed while resident in Canada.
Permanent residents may लागू लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता after three years in Canada ; however this is not mandatory.
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the American ABC दिन साबुन ओपेरा सब my Children.
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16, 1970 until the last broadcast टेलीविज़न एपीसोड aired on सितंबर 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it was announced that Lucci will guest-star on the prospect पार्क 's continuation of All My Children.
In the U.S., Erica is माना to be the सबसे लोकप्रिय अक्षर in soap opera history.
Regarding the North-American market, TV Guide काल्स उसके `` unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साबुन ओपेरा अक्षर in the history of daytime TV '', and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in ब्लू ), और its percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the price स्तर of a मार्केट बास्केट of consumer goods and services purchased by households.
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a मार्केट बास्केट of consumer goods and services. ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate constructed using the कीमतें of a sample of representative items whose prices are collected periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services, being combined to produce the overall index with weights reflecting their shares in the कुल of the उपभोक्ता expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of several price indices calculated by most national सांख्यिकीय एजेंसियों.
The annual percentage change in a cpi is प्रयुक्त as a measure of inflation.
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e., adjust for the effect of inflation ) the real value of wages, salaries, pensions, for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values.
In most countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product खाते, एक of the सबसे closely देखी नेशनल economic statistics.
Knocking on wood, or to टच लकडी, refers to the apotropaic परंपरा in पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on लकडी, or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend वही, in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own death.
Rocker भुजा
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and reciprocating विमानन इंजन, the rocker arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it.
One end is raised and lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) while the अन्य समाप्त अधिनियमों on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm, the inside presses down on the वाल्व stem, opening the valve.
When the बाहर of the भुजा is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts rotation, the inside rises, allowing the valve spring to close the valve.
the ड्राइव cam is driven by the camshaft.
This pushes the rocker भुजा up और bas about the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
घर्षण may be reduced at the point of contact with the valve stem by a roller cam follower.
A similar व्यवस्था हस्तांतरण the गति via another roller cam follower to a second rocker arm.
This rotates about the rocker shaft, and transfers the motion via a tappet to the poppet वाल्व.
In this case this opens the सेवन वाल्व to the cylinder head.
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio, the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's बीच of रोटेशन to the टिप विभाजित by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive design favors रॉकर भुजा ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift is greater than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी ऋणात्मक ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used.
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
For car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings, providing a उचित संतुलन of शक्ति, weight and economical cost.
क्युकी the रॉकर बाहें हैं, in भाग, reciprocating weight, excessive mass especially at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the लाइट्स गई आउट in जॉर्जिया '' is a Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
Reba mcentire बाद covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972, the song centers around the पुरानी bhai of the narrator, falsely convicted of और चलाया लिये a हत्या, which the narrator herself has committed.
In postal mail, a वापसी पता is an सुस्पष्ट समावेश of the address of the person sending the message.
it provides the प्राप्तकर्ता ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to respond to the sender of the message if needed.
The return address need not include a sender 's name, but should include address or P.O. box विवरण in the वही रास्ता as the delivery address should.
In some countries, the return address is conventionally स्तिथ in the अपर बाएँ हाथ कोने of the envelope, card, or label.
In the United Kingdom, the return address is प्रायः लगाई on the रिवर्स of the लिफाफा, near the top.
व्यवसायों often use envelopes preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have sheets of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes include such चादरें in mailshots.
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized लेबल्स to provide individuals an आसान way to peel and stick return address labels to their envelopes.
The return पता is नहीं जरूरी on postal mail.
However, lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to return the item if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे as from damage, postage due, or invalid destination.
Such mail may thus become मुर्दे letter mail.
Should the return address be of a different राज्य or देश, the mail may be routed through that location for ease of return.
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial nerve graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to सुकर तंत्रिका regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries.
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed nerve can not be accomplished without tension, the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous तंत्रिका grafting.
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting, neural ऊतक अभियान्त्रिकी शोध रै केन्द्रित on the development of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for large defects.
Similar techniques are also being explored for nerve repair in the spinal cord लकिन तंत्रिका regeneration in the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली मुद्राएँ a वृहद challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment.
The creation of artificial conduits is also known as entubulation because the nerve ends and intervening gap are enclosed भीतर a ट्यूब रचित of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, सिंथेटिक ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit, it चाहिए सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal and distal ends of the nerve gap, block external inhibitory factors, and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine physical, रासायनिक, और biological cues अंतर्गत शर्तें कि होगा फोस्टर tissue formation.
Materials that have been used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles, while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made इससे silicone और polyglycolide क्रमशः.
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure, scaffold सामग्री, सेल्यूलर therapies, neurotrophic कारकों and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which physical, chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the nerve environment, which is critical in बनाना the सबसे वांछनीय पर्यावरण लिये axon regeneration.
The factors that control सामग्री चयन शामिल biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical integrity, controllability during nerve growth, implantation and sterilization.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry and Loan, a family-owned साहूकार दूकान located at 20450 Greenfield Road, between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit, Michigan.
The series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering दो million viewers, setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever.
amoxicillin BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), and abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic प्रयुक्त to दावत बैक्टीरियल infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the drug of choice within the class because it is better absorbed, following oral administration, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
Amoxicillin is one of the most common antibiotics विहित लिये children.
The ड्रग became available in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria, which are resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin.
For this reason, it is often combined with clavulanic एसिड, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as lbj, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : प्रतिनिधि, सीनेटर, वाइस अध्यक्ष, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961, including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right, winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों, पब्लिक broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' उसके coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, and crime दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया मांगे for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended उसके bid for reelection.
Republican Richard Nixon was निर्वाचित to सफल him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is क्रमित favorably by some historians because of his domestic policies.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim पार्सन्स, और जॉनी Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory, created and executive produced by चक lorre और विधेयक prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at अलग टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, each of whom plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी समूह of एपीसोड.
The American Civil युद्ध ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The युद्ध था its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James बुकानन और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The पूर्वी थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी थिएटर, विलियम T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Human एवोल्यूशन refers to the evolutionary process leading up to the appearance of modern humans.
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life, the topic प्रायः कवर तभी the विकासवादी इतिहास of primates, in particular the genus Homo, and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
The study of human evolution involves many scientific disciplines, सहित शारीरिक मानवशास्त्र, primatology, पुरातत्व, linguistics, evolutionary psychology, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period, और the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene, around.
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years ago, and around, the ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line, and the earliest bipedal hominin is माना to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin, with Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
the गोरिल्ला और चिंपैंजी diverged around the same time, about 4-6 million years ago, and either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them.
The early bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines और later the genus Homo.
The earliest documented सदस्यों of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which evolved around ; the earliest species for which there is positive evidence of use of stone tools.
The brains of these early hominins were परिचय the वही आकार as कि of a chimpanzee.
During the next million years a process of encephalization began, and with the arrival of Homo erectus in the fossil record, cranial क्षमता था doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to छोड़ अफ़्रीकी, and these species spread through Africa, Asia, and Europe between.
It is believed that these species were the first to use आग और complex tools.
according to the हाल अफ़्रीकी ancestry सिद्धान्त, आधुनिक इंसानो evolved in Africa possibly from Homo heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago, replacing local populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically modern humans, विकसित between 400,000 और 250,000 years ago.
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-African populations, and Neanderthals and other hominids, such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of उनके genome to present-day इंसानs. < संदर्भ name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago.
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture, language, and specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 सालो पहले according to अनेक विज्ञानियों हालांकि some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span.
Lisa Cuddy, M.D., is a fictional अक्षर on the Fox network medical drama House.
She is portrayed by Lisa edelstein.
cuddy थी the डीन of आयुर्विज्ञान और हॉस्पिटल व्यवस्थापक of the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey.
She also becomes House 's प्रेम interest through the years to start a relationship with him in season seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of season seven 's finale `` चलती on ``.
Track and field is a sport comprising various competitive athletic contests based on कार्यशील, कूद, और फेंकना.
The name of the sport गर्भाशयी इससे the प्रतियोगिता स्थान : a स्टेडियम साथ an oval running track around a grass field.
The throwing and कूद कार्यक्रम generally लो प्लेस in the central enclosed area.
Track and field falls under the छतरियाँ खेल of एथलेटिक्स, जिससे भी शामिल road running, cross country running, and race walking.
The two most prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं हैं आयोजित अंतर्गत the ध्वज of athletics : the athletics competition at the Olympic Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics.
The International Association of एथलेटिक्स federations is the international governing body for track and field.
Track and field events are generally individual sports with athletes चुनौतीपूर्ण प्रत्येक अन्य to decide a सिंगल victor.
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time, जबकि the कूद और फेंकना कार्यक्रम हैं जीती by the athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest.
The running कार्यक्रम हैं categorised as sprints, middle and long-distance events, relays, and hurdling.
Regular jumping events include long jump, triple jump, high jump and pole vault, while the most common throwing events are शॉट put, javelin, discus और हथौड़ा.
There are also `` संयुक्त कार्यक्रम '', ऐसे as heptathlon and decathlon, in which athletes compete in a number of the above events.
Records are kept of the best प्रदर्शन in विशिष्ट कार्यक्रम, at संसार and national levels, right down to a personal level.
However, if athletes are deemed to have violated the event 's नियम or regulations, वे हैं disqualified इससे the competition and their marks are erased.
In North America, the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in general, बल्कि than specifically track और फ़ील्ड events.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was a war waged by a u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन फ़ोर्स इससे 34 राष्ट्र led by the United States, against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait.
The war is also known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf War, First Gulf War, Gulf War I, or the First Iraq War, before the term `` Iraq War '' became पहचाना बजाय साथ the 2003 इराकी युद्ध ( भी referred to in the u.S. as `` आपरेशन इराकी Freedom '' ).
Kuwait 's आक्रमण by इराकी सैनिकों कि began 2 August 1990 was met with international condemnation, and brought immediate economic sanctions against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into Saudi Arabia, and urged other देशों to भेजें उनके अपना शक्तियां to the scene.
An सरणी of nations joined the Coalition.
The great majority of the गठबन्धन 's सैन्य शक्तियां यहूद इससे the u.S., with Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and Egypt as leading contributors, in that order.
Saudi Arabia paid around us $ 36 billion of the US $ 60 billion cost.
The war was marked by the beginning of live news on the front lines of the लड़ो, साथ the primacy of the U.S. network CNN.
The war has also earned the nickname Video खेल युद्ध बाद the रोज़ ब्रॉडकास्ट बिंब on board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm.
The आरंभिक विरोध to निकाल Iraqi troops from Kuwait began with an aerial bombardment on 17 January 1991.
This was followed by a मैदान उत्पीड़न on 24 February.
This was a decisive विजय लिये the Coalition forces, who liberated Kuwait and advanced into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased their advance, and declared a cease-fire 100 hours after the ground campaign started.
Aerial and ground combat was confined to Iraq, Kuwait, and क्षेत्रों on सऊदी अरब 's border.
Iraq launched scud मिसाइलें विरूद्ध गठबन्धन military targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel.
The nickel, in American usage, is a five- cent सिक्का जारी by the United States Mint.
Composed of 75 % copper और 25 % निकल, the टुकड़ा has been struck since 1866.
The silver half dime, equal to five cents, had been issued since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused economic hardship, driving gold and silver from circulation ; in response, in place of low-value सिक्के, the सरकारी at पहला जारी पेपर currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी नोट बाद स्पेंसर M. क्लार्क, head of the Currency Bureau ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ), placed his own portrait on the denomination.
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces, without precious metal, Congress also authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866.
The initial design of the Shield nickel was struck until 1883, तब replaced by the Liberty Head nickel.
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to increase the beauty of अमरीकी coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 and 2005, special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark expedition यहूद जारी.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using जेफरसन निकल designer Felix Schlag 's original reverse ( or `` tails '' side ), although a new obverse, by Jamie Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than eleven cents to उपज a निकल ; the मिंट is exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals.
A poster with flowers or clusters of flowers produced by twelve species of flowering पौधे इससे अलग families
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also पुकारा angiosperms ).
The biological फलन of a पुष्प is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg इससे the वही पुष्प ).
Some flowers produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and are the site where gametophytes develop.
पुष्प दे rise to fruit and seeds.
Many flowers have विकसित to be आकर्षक to पशु, so as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants, flowers have long been admired and used by इंसानो to beautify उनके पर्यावरण, और भी as objects of romance, ritual, religion, medicine and as a source of food.
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
It is considered among the most successful आधुनिक सेनानी, साथ over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट victories साथ no losses in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a समर्पित एयर बड़प्पन fighter.
The Eagle पहला उड़ाया in जुलाई 1972, and entered service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the Eagle has been exported to इसराईल, जापानी, सऊदी अरब, और अन्य राष्ट्र.
The F-15 was originally envisioned as a pure एयर superiority aircraft.
Its डिज़ाइन शामिल a द्वितीयक ground-attack capability that was largely unused.
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike derivative, the F-15E Strike Eagle, थी बाद विकसित, और डाला service in 1989.
The F-15 Eagle is expected to be in सेवा साथ the u.S. Air Force past 2025.
mimio is a ब्रांड नाम of a line of technology products aimed at the education market.
The primary products are focused around computer whiteboard इंटरैक्टिव शिक्षण डिवाइस.
mimiocapture डिवाइस भी allow उपयोक्ता to कैप्चर सब of the ink strokes that are written on the whiteboard.
When used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard सतह into a fully इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard.
The product line थी originally designed by Virtual Ink.
On October 4, 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard ( iwb ) product line.
rahab of Jericho
Rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the Book of Joshua, a स्त्री who lived in Jericho in the Promised Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all English translations of जोशुआ describe her as a harlot or prostitute.
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de लॉस estados americanos, पुर्तगाली : Organização dos Estados Americanos, French : Organisation des États américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
The OAS was संस्थापित on 30 अप्रैल 1948, और has its headquarters in Washington, D.C., United States.
Its members are the 35 स्वतंत्र राज्य of the Americas.
Since 26 May 2005, the Secretary General of oas रै महरूम José Miguel Insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 October 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer, navigator, and colonizer, born in the Republic of जेनोआ, in कया is आज northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain, he completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general यूरोपीय जागरूकता of the अमरीकी महाद्वीपों.
Those voyages, and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking माल through the स्थापना of व्यापार रूट और colonies, कोलंबस 's speculative proposal, to reach the East Indies by sailing westward, eventually received the support of the Spanish crown, which saw in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia.
During his first voyage in 1492, instead of reaching Japan as he had intended, कोलंबस उतरा in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he named San Salvador.
over the कोर्स of तीन अधिक voyages, कोलंबस visited the वृहद and Lesser Antilles, as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central America, claiming them for the Spanish Empire.
हालांकि कोलंबस थी नहीं the पहला यूरोपीय एक्सप्लोरर to पहुँचें the americas ( having महरूम preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif ericson in the 11th सदी ), कोलंबस 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी यूरोपीय सम्पर्क साथ the americas, inaugurating a काल of यूरोपीय खोजी, conquest, और colonization कि lasted लिये अनेक सदियां.
They had, therefore, an enormous impact in the ऐतिहासिक विकास of the आधुनिक पश्चिमी संसार.
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the light of the spreading of the ईसाई धर्म.
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans, rather than the East Indies he had set out for, कोलंबस पुकारा the निवासियों of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and dismissal as governor of the settlements on the island of हिस्पानिओला in 1500, और बाद to protracted वाद over the लाभ जिससे कोलंबस और उसके वारिस claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the Boxer is a breed of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The coat is चिकना और tight-fitting ; रंगों are fawn or brindled, with or without white markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( वे have व्यापक, short skulls ), and have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), very strong jaws, and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey.
The Boxer was bred from the Old English बुल और the अभी विलुप्त Bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers were पहला exhibited in a श्वान दिखाएँ लिये St. Bernards in Munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year.
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics, Boxers held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the तीसरा लगातार साल.
सीरियल ata ( sata ) is a कंप्यूटर बस इंटरफ़ेस that connects host bus adapters to mass storage devices such as hard disk drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ata ; बाद referred to as समानांतर ata or pata ), offering अनेक लाभ over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ), native hot swapping, faster data transfer through higher signalling rates, and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed serial cable over दो pairs of conductors.
In contrast, parallel ATA ( the redesignation लिये the विरासत ata विशेषताएँ ) प्रयुक्त a 16-bit चौड़ी data bus with many additional support and control signals, all operating at much lower frequency.
To ensure पिछड़ा संगतता with legacy ATA software and applications, SATA uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer desktop and laptop computers, and रै largely replaced pata in new embedded applications.
SATA 's market share in the डेस्कटॉप pc मार्केट was 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications that use CompactFlash भंडार, भी हालांकि the नई cfast मानक is based on SATA.
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications originate from The Serial ATA अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( aka.
sata-io, serialata.org ).
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, समीक्षाएँ, ratifies, और publishes the interoperability specifications, the test cases, and plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA content स्वामित्व is transferred to अन्य उद्योग लाशें : primarily the incits t13 उपसमिति ata, the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ).
The पूरा specification इससे SATA-IO.
The remainder of this article will try to use the शब्दावली and specifications of SATA-IO.
The history of the Internet began with the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the अवधारणाओं कि होता सीसे to the अंतरजाल जब a संदेश थी भेजा over the arpanet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California, Los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, मेरिट संजाल, tymnet, और telenet, यहूद विकसित in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in which अनेक पृथक networks could be joined together into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) थी मानकीकृत, और नतीजतन, the अवधारणा of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was विस्तारित in 1981 जब the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The अंतरजाल थी commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet थी decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक ट्रैफ़िक.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use उन्नत संजाल such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or अधिक.
the अंतरजाल 's कब्ज़ा over the वैश्विक संचार लैंडस्केप थी लगभग तत्काल in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, चलित by कभी greater amounts of online information, commerce, entertainment, and social networking.
The Gift is the second एल्बम by स्कॉटिश सिंगर सुसान बॉयल, which was released on 8 November 2010.
बॉयल hinted कि the album has a 1960s feel `` because that was [ her ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the album received a नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी Awards for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध imagist कविता by William Carlos Williams.
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a major अक्षर और समर्थक of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
For most of the श्रेणी, he is the headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts.
As part of his backstory, it is revealed कि he is the संस्थापक और नेता of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation dedicated to fighting the main antagonist of the series, Lord Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
After Harris ' death, Michael Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the बाकी films.
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore, which is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लिये `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide हार्मोन कि is उत्पादित in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body.
It acts to reduce blood calcium ( Ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ).
Calcitonin has been मिला in मछली, सरीसृपों, पक्षियों, and mammals.
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals, as its फलन is प्रायः नहीं significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis.
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein परिवार.
A mousepad साथ a padded wrist rest.
A mousepad ( US ) or चूहा mat ( uk ) is a सतह लिये रखकर and moving a computer mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a चूहा सीधे on a तालिका by providing a surface to allow the tracking LED or ball ( in former models ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter.
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded wrist rest.
The स्टेडियम seen from above in 1980
December 29, 2002 implosion
The Riverfront स्टेडियम साईट in जून, 2006.
This photo was taken from the western concourse of Great American Ball Park.
A small portion of the riverfront स्टेडियम साईट is अभी occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and Museum and Main Street, which was extended when the new park was built.
The Cincinnati Bengals ' Paul Brown Stadium is in the अलहदा.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ), was the home of the Cincinnati Reds National League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National फ़ुटबॉल League team.
Located on the Ohio River in downtown सिनसिनाटी, the स्टेडियम थी बेहतरीन known as the home of `` The Big Red Machine ``, as the Reds were often called in the 1970s.
Construction began on February 1, 1968, और थी समाप्त at a cost of less than $ 50 million.
On June 30, 1970, the Reds hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening, with Hank Aaron hitting the पहला कभी घर चलाएं at Riverfront.
Two weeks later on July 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख लीग Baseball All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home plate between Reds star Pete Rose and catcher रे fosse of the क्लीवलैंड Indians.
In September 1996, Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a प्रायोजन सौदे साथ वृहद सिनसिनाटी 's energy company, Cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to make room for Great American Ball Park, the seating capacity at cinergy फ़ील्ड थी घटाया to 39,000.
There was a huge wall in Center Field visible बाद the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
The stadium was demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
Nexen Tire is a tire निर्माता, headquartered in Yangsan, South Gyeongsang Province, and Seoul, both in South Korea.
Its major घरेलू प्रतिस्पर्धी are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires.
The company 's नाम is reflected in the company slogan, `` Next Century Tire. ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority of people in a country or group जो do नहीं एक्स्प्रेस their opinions publicly.
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President Richard Nixon in a November 3, 1969, speech in which he said, `` And so tonight—to you, the ग्रेट मूक बहुमत of my fellow americans—i ask for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the समय, जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the counterculture, and who did not participate in public discourse.
Nixon along with many others saw this group of Middle Americans as होने निष्प्रभ in the media by the more vocal minority.
The phrase was used in the 19th सदी as a प्रेयोक्ति referring to all the people who have died, and others have used it before and after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world.
Sam, a rhesus monkey, उड़ाया to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( नासा )
Before humans went into space, several animals were launched into space, including numerous monkeys, so that वैज्ञानिकों could investigate the biological प्रभाव of space travel.
The United States launched flights containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 साथ एक उड़ान in 1969 and one in 1985.
France launched दो monkey-carrying flights in 1967.
The Soviet Union and Russia launched बंदरों between 1983 and 1996.
Most monkeys were anesthetized before lift-off.
Overall thirty-two बंदरों उड़ाया in the space program ; none flew more than once.
Numerous back-up monkeys also went through the कार्यक्रम लकिन never flew.
Monkeys from several species were used, including rhesus monkeys, cynomolgus monkeys, squirrel बंदरों, और pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes बल्कि than बंदरों ) यहूद also used.
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks, originally अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '', depending on the level of अतिरेक and performance required.
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David Patterson, Garth A. Gibson, and रैंडी katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, बर्कली in 1987.
Marketers representing industry रेड निर्माताओं later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of independent disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can divide and replicate data among multiple physical drives : RAID is an example of storage virtualization and the array can be पहुँचा by the operating system as one single drive.
The अलग योजनाएं or architectures are named by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
Each scheme provides a अलग संतुलन between the कुंजी goals : reliability and availability, performance and capacity.
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable ( सेक्टर ) read errors, as well as whole disk failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes और छोटी lymphocytes.
विशाल granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t cells and B cells.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by Joel and Ethan Coen.
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff lebowski, an बेरोजगार लॉस एंजिल्स slacker and avid bowler, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
After a case of mistaken पहचान, the Dude is introduced to a millionaire also named Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he आयोग the यार to deliver the ransom to secure her release.
the योजना goes awry जब The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the full ransom.
Steve Buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, David Huddleston, Julianne Moore, Tara Reid, and John Turturro also star in the फिल्मी, जिससे is narrated by a काउंटी known only as `` The Stranger '', played by Sam Elliott.
The film is loosely प्रेरित by the कार्य of Raymond Chandler.
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler दयालु of स्टोरी – कैसा it चालें episodically, और सौदे with the characters trying to unravel a mystery, as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant. ''
The original score was रचित by कार्टर Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big Lebowski was a disappointment at the U.S. box office and received mixed समीक्षाएँ at the समय of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the film has become a cult favorite, noted for its idiosyncratic characters, dream sequences, unconventional संवाद, और eclectic साउंडट्रैक.
Severus Snape is a fictional अक्षर in the हैरी कुम्हार किताब श्रेणी written by J.K. Rowling.
In the first novel of the series, he is शत्रु toward हैरी और is निर्मित up to be the primary antagonist until the final chapters.
As the series progresses, Snape 's अक्षर becomes more layered and complex.
Rowling does not fully reveal the details of his true loyalties जबतक the end of the final book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the series, Snape 's portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal अक्षर of considerable जटिलता and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts, though in the sixth novel he सिखाती रक्षा विरूद्ध the अंधेरा कला, a स्थिति जिससे he थी ज्ञात to have desired throughout the series.
He ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर of हॉग्वार्ट्स in the final novel.
Rowling has described him as `` a gift of a अक्षर ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of Native अमरीकी उत्पत्ति, कि is common in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast.
Modern grits हैं commonly made of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the संसार such as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have महरूम processed to speed cooking.
The शब्द `` grits '' गर्भाशयी इससे the बूढ़ा English word `` grytt, '' meaning coarse meal.
This word originally referred to गेहूं और other porridges now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages, is a खाना निकला इससे मकई ( a New World plant ) and `` corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically, in the American South the word was invariably singular notwithstanding its बहुवचन रूप ( cf. ऐसे खाना names as `` स्पघेटी '' or `` linguine '', likewise बहुवचन in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( from a native American Muskogee word ).
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद धारणा.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, और बाद by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore, elevated स्तर measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
however, it is नहीं ज्ञात whether this production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, ज्ञात as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the counter hCG आहार उत्पाद और घोषित them fraudulent and illegal.
The Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर क्यूबा and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to बस as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध with the company, produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब बेचें, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
ऐसे bottlers शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों, which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and खाना सेवा वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी रै, on अवसर, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, coca-cola शून्य, coca-cola वैनिला, और special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, coca-cola थी the world 's most valuable brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the सरकारी or by पार्लियामेंट लकिन साथ a significant उपाधि of स्वतंत्रता, जो is चार्ज साथ representing the interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights.
In some countries an इंस्पेक्टर सामान्य, नागरिक एडवोकेट or other official may have duties similar to those of a national ombudsman, and may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or municipal government, और unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by, or भी कार्य लिये, a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a newspaper, for an NGO, or for a professional regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the legislature, the executive, or an organization ( or, कम अक्सर, निर्वाचित by the constituency कि he or वो serves ), the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them, usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading to ग़रीब सेवा or breaches of people 's rights.
At the नेशनल स्तर, सबसे ombudsmen have a चौड़ी जनादेश to सौदे साथ the entire public sector, and sometimes also elements of the private sector ( for example, contracted service providers ).
In some cases, there is a अधिक प्रतिबंधित mandate, for example with particular sectors of society.
More recent developments have included the creation of specialised Children 's ombudsman और सूचना Commissioner agencies.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the संयुक्त किंगडम संसदीय Commissioner for Administration, and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ).
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with कथित maladministration to promoting और protecting human rights, the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution.
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century महरूम instituted by सबसे सरकारें and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union.
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is usually फ़्री of charge.
चिह्न at Georgetown University Washington DC
Sign in बांजुल, The Gambia
Autumn in New England, watercolor, मौरिस prendergast.
Ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the कस्बा of स्टो, Vermont
New England is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of maine, नई Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
New England is bordered by New York state to the southwest, Quebec to the उत्तरपश्चिम, और नई ब्रंसविक and the Atlantic Ocean to the east.
In one of the earliest अंग्रेज़ी settlements in North America, Pilgrims from England first settled in New England in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony.
Ten years later, the Puritans settled north of Plymouth उपनिवेश in बोस्टन, यूँ forming मैसाचुसेट्स खाड़ी Colony.
Over the next 130 years, नई इंग्लैण्ड लड़ा in चार फ्रेंच और Indian Wars, until the British defeated the French and their native allies in North America.
In the late 18th century, the New England Colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट 's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government, जिससे यहूद termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the British authorities from नई इंग्लैण्ड in वसन्त 1776, और the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.
Some of the पहला आंदोलनों of American literature, philosophy, and education originated in New England.
The region played a prominent भूमिका in the गति to abolish गुलामी, और थी the first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution.
Today, New England is a major world center of शिक्षा, ऊँची प्रौद्योगिकी, insurance, and medicine.
Boston is its cultural, वित्तीय, शैक्षणिक, चिकित्सा and transportation center.
प्रत्येक राज्य is प्रधानतया subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as New England towns, which are often governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in New इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse, उत्तरी regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Since 1970, मतदाता have अधिक प्रायः समर्थित उदार उम्मीदवार at the state and federal level than those of any other region in the United States.
New England is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions whose name करता नहीं derive इससे इसके भूगोल, and it is the only multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries.
It maintains a strong sense of सांस्कृतिक पहचान नियत अलावा इससे the बाकी of the country, although the terms of this identity are often contested, combining Puritanism with liberalism, agrarian life with industry, and isolation with immigration.
आपात !
is an American television series that combines the चिकित्सा नाटक और action-adventure genres.
It was उत्पादित by चिह्नित VII Limited and distributed by Universal Studios.
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on NBC, replacing the two short-lived श्रेणी the साझेदार और the शुभ जीवन, और भागा until September 3, 1977, with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years.
आपात !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and Robert A. cinader, दोनो of जिसको यहूद भी responsible for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet.
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of the contiguous United राज्य, भाग of कनाडा और तीन देशों in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
Places that use Eastern Standard Time ( EST ) when observing standard time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 घंटों पीछे समन्वित सार्वभौमिक समय ( ).
पूर्वी daylight समय ( edt ), जब observing daylight saving time ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
In the उत्तरी भाग of the समय मण्डल, दौरान the दूसरी संडे in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
During the first Sunday in नवम्बर, at 2:00 a.m. edt, clocks are moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus `` duplicating '' one hour.
Southern parts of the zone ( पनामा और the caribbean ) do नहीं observe daylight saving.
Standard form of the आवधिक तालिका.
The colors represent different categories of तत्व समझाया below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements, organized on the basis of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements are presented in order of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( क्रमांक of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of elements, positioned above a छोटी दोगुना पंक्ति of तत्व.
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the सही, the d-block in the मध्य, और the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are पुकारा अवधि ; the कालम of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are called groups, with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by परिभाषा, a आवधिक तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती trends, any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
हालांकि precursors मौजूद, dmitri mendeleev is generally credited with the publication, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be अपेक्षित to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व और the विकास of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally, although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have तभी महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन being a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by Swedish programmer Markus `` Notch '' Persson and बाद विकसित और published by Mojang.
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental अल्फा संस्करण और, बाद क्रमिक अद्यतन, थी प्रकाशित as a पूरा release version on November 18, 2011.
A version for Android was released a माह पहले on अक्तूबर 7, and an iOS version was released on November 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the game was released on Xbox 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game, co-developed by 4J Studios.
All versions of Minecraft receive periodic अद्यतन.
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow खिलाड़ी to निर्माण constructions आउट of textured cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world.
Other activities in the खेल शामिल खोजी, gathering resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival, which requires players to acquire resources and maintain उनके स्वास्थ्य और भूख ; और रचनात्मक, जहाँ खिलाड़ी have an असीमित सप्लाई of resources, the ability to fly, and no health or hunger.
A third gameplay विधि नामित हार्डकोर is the वही as अस्तित्व, differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest setting and respawning is disabled, forcing players to delete their worlds upon death.
Minecraft प्राप्त पाँच पुरस्कार इससे the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award, Best Downloadable Game Award, and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game Developers Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award, as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, minecraft थी awarded a सुनहरी जॉयस्टिक Award in the category Best Downloadable Game.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC and as of January 22, 2013, over 20 लाख नक़ल across all platforms.
The Dark नाईट is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the film is the दूसरी भाग of नोलन 's बैटमैन फिल्मी श्रेणी और a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the सीसे भूमिका of ब्रूस wayne/batman, with a returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth, Gary Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel Dawes ( Maggie जिलएनहॉल ), जो joins बैटमैन और the पुलिस in combating the नई उठती threat of a दण्ड मास्टरमाइंड calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 ग्राफिक अनोखा, और the 1996 श्रेणी, जिससे retold Two-Face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first लागू to बैटमैन in बैटमैन no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a story written by Bill Finger.
The Dark Knight was फिल्माया primarily in शिकागो, as खूब as in several other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences, सहित the जोकर 's first appearance in the film.
On January 22, 2008, some months after he था समाप्त फिल्मांकन on the अंधेरा नाईट और छह महीने पहले the फिल्मी 's release, Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs, leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public.
Warner भाईs. था initially निर्मित a वाइरल विपणन campaign for The Dark Knight, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker, but after Ledger 's death, the studio refocused its promotional campaign.
The Dark Knight was released on July 16, 2008 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, on जुलाई 18, 2008 in North America, and on July 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever बना, the फिल्मी प्राप्त अत्यधिक धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ और नियत numerous records during its theatrical run.
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब time, unadjusted for inflation.
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for Best Sound Editing and Ledger was मरणोपरांत awarded बेहतरीन supporting Actor.
The Dark Knight Rises, the final भाग of the त्रयी, थी released on July 20, 2012.
The timeline of रेडियो सूचियाँ भीतर the इतिहास of रेडियो, the प्रौद्योगिकी और कार्यक्रम कि produced instruments that use radio waves and activities that people undertook.
Later, the history is dominated by programming and contents, जिससे is करीब to सामान्य इतिहास.
The Sydney ओपेरा हाउस is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, Australia.
It was conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon, खोलने in 1973 बाद a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957.
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales Government gave the go-ahead for work to शुरू in 1958.
The सरकारी 's bold decision to select Utzon 's design is often overshadowed by the scandal that followed.
It is on bennelong पाइंट in सिडनी Harbour, close to the Sydney Harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the CBD ), surrounded on three sides by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव और फार्म कोव ) और अंतर्देशीय by the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to its name, it घरों अनेक performance venues.
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world, hosting over 1,500 प्रदर्शन प्रत्येक साल attended by कुछ 1.2 million people.
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies, including the four key resident कंपनियाँ ओपेरा ऑस्ट्रेलिया, The Australian Ballet, the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of productions on its own account.
It is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia, with more than seven लाख लोगों visiting प्रत्येक साल, 300,000 of whom take a guided tour.
It is administered by the Sydney Opera House Trust, under the New South Wales Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 June 2007, it was made a युनेस्को World Heritage Site.
It is one of the 20th century 's most distinctive buildings और एक of the सबसे famous performing arts centres in the world.
A graph of देह द्रव्यमान index as a function of body mass and body height is shown above.
The dashed lines represent subdivisions within a प्रमुख क्लास.
For instance the `` Underweight '' वर्गीकरण is further divided into `` severe '', `` moderate '', and `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass index ( BMI ), or Quetelet index, is a measure for human body shape आधारित on an individual 's weight and height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe Quetelet during the कोर्स of विकासशील `` social physics ''.
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's body mass divided by the वर्गाकार of their height.
The formulae universally used in medicine produce a ईकाई of माप of kg/m2.
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart, which displays बीएमआई as a फलन of weight ( horizontal axis ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines for different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories.
† The factor for UK/US units is more precisely 703.06957964, but that level of precision is not meaningful for इस गणना.
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the stone by 14 then add the pounds to give the whole mass in pounds ; to work from feet and inches first multiply the फीट by 12 तब add the इंच to दे the पूरे ऊँचाई in inches.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( NS February 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) थी an english-american राजनैतिक activist, author, political theorist and revolutionary.
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the प्रारंभ of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, he inspired the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.
His ideas reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational human rights.
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by trade, a पत्रकार by व्यवसायिक, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, England, in the काउंटी of Norfolk, Paine emigrated to the British American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution.
His principal contributions were the powerful, widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great ब्रिटेन, और the अमरीकी संकट ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said, `` Without the pen of the लेखक of आम भाव, the तलवार of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s, बनने deeply शामिल in the French Revolution.
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ), in भाग a रक्षा of the French Revolution against its critics.
His attacks on British writer Edmund बुर्के led to a विचारण और conviction in absentia in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel.
In 1792, despite not being able to speak French, he was elected to the French National Convention.
the girondists regarded him as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Robespierre, regarded उसे as an दुश्मन.
In December 1793, he was arrested and imprisoned in पेरिस, then released in 1794.
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ), his book that advocates deism, promotes reason और freethinking, और argues विरूद्ध institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular.
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income.
In 1802, he returned to America where he died on जून 8, 1809.
Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for उसके उपहास of christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically, information about adverse drug reactions and adverse effects of other उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य interventions ( e.g., दवाएँ, नैदानिक, डिवाइस, चिकित्सा प्रोटोकॉल ).
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on the विशेषता of the गैर नैदानिक सुरक्षा, और स्वास्थ्य authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought.
Previously, अनेक उभरते देशों किया not require local trials for product approvals.
Now, though emerging countries still accept आंकड़ा इससे u.s./europe, they also require some local trials.
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development, investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or मरीजों into छोटी pilot studies, and subsequently conduct larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest.
As positive safety and efficacy data are gathered, the number of patients is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in size, and can involve a single research entity in एक देश or अनेक such entities in multiple countries.
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs, and the burden of paying for all the necessary people and services is usually borne by the प्रायोजक, जिससे may be a सरकारी organization or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of जरूरी support भूमिकाएँ exceeds the संसाधन of the sponsor, a clinical trial is managed by an outsourced partner, such as a contract research organization or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector.
The ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स हैं an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports टोली in the संयुक्त States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun, the Green खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन and the Midwest.
They joined the American पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और मीडिया extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC सेंट्रल ) opponents, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास, डेटिंग वापस to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ), the same type of दारू मिला in alcoholic beverages.
It is most often used as a मोटर ईंधन, मुख्यतः as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World ethanol production for transport ईंधन tripled between 2000 और 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in वैश्विक गैसोलीन प्रकार ईंधन उपयोग increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), with the United States as the top producer with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), हिसाब लिये 62.2 % of वैश्विक उत्पादन, followed by ब्राज़ील साथ 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline गैलन equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of, जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one gallon of gasoline.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States, और साथ दोनो देशों यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011.
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol, और इथेनॉल represented 10 % of the u.S. गैसोलीन ईंधन सप्लाई निकला from domestic sources in 2011.
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend ethanol with gasoline, and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol और 75 % गैसोलीन ( e25 ).
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a form of renewable उर्जा कि can be उत्पादित from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very common crops such as शुगर cane, आलू, manioc and corn.
There has been considerable debate about how useful bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline.
Concerns about इसके उत्पादन और उपयोग relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required for crops, as well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production, especially from corn.
Recent developments साथ cellulosic इथेनॉल production and commercialization may allay some of these concerns.
Cellulosic ethanol offers वादा क्युकी cellulose मछली, a प्रमुख और universal component in plant cells walls, can be used to produce ethanol.
According to the International Energy Agency, cellulosic ethanol could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 sportcombi BioPower.
The second E85 flexifuel model introduced by साब in the स्वीडिश market.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and प्लैक बदला इससे cyrillic to लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट )
A plaque commemorating the स्थान of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead in Sarajevo, by Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of छह बोस्नियाई Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the हत्या थी to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the गति कि बाद became ज्ञात as यंग Bosnia.
Serbian military अधिकारियों stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man प्रमुख vojislav tankosić, और masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with बम और pistols और trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the घुसपैठ of हथियार और operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key Serbian military conspirators who यहूद स्टिल जिंदा were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were आजमाया in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The other षड्यंत्रकारियों यहूद गिरफ्तार और आजमाया पहले a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two ट्रायल और सम्बन्धित records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार War I one month later.
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25, 1969 ) is an American actress and producer.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ), और subsequently प्राप्त दो nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress for her roles as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Cold Mountain ( 2003 ).
She has won an Academy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, तीन स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं Guild Awards, and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the human body, the malleus, the incus और the stapes.
They are contained भीतर the मध्य कान स्पेस and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
The term `` ossicles '' वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` छोटा हड्डियों '' और commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
the नई वचन ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It is often विचार of as an eschatological Messianic Age or world to come and is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God.
Generally, Christians believe that the नई वचन थी instituted at the पिछला भोजन as भाग of the Eucharist, which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant, as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing संबंध between ईसाई ईमानवालों और परमेश्वर कि होगा be in पूरा फलीभूत बाद the दूसरी coming of मसीह ; कि is, it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the future external world as well.
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is देखी in सबसे आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of the नई वसीयत साथ the saying : `` this cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood ''.
Christians believe that यीशु is the मध्यस्थ of the New Covenant, and that the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant.
As with all covenants between God and man described in the Bible, the नई वचन is माना `` a बंध in रक्त sovereignly administered by God. ''
It has महरूम theorized कि the New Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount.
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President of the United States दस्तावेज़ the सबसे prominent मामले of प्रत्येक presidency.
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II, Section 2, Clause 1 ), राष्ट्रपतियों have the power to grant clemency in one or more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon, to commute a sentence, or to rescind a fine.
U.S. Presidents have no power to ग्रान्ट दया लिये crimes prosecuted under state law.
As to the difference between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an कार्यपालिका order vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the mitigation of the वाक्य of किसी फिलहाल सेवारत a वाक्य for a crime pursuant to a conviction, without vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies यहूद जारी by u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों in the 20th century alone.
The records of acts of दया यहूद पब्लिक until 1934.
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was created and रिकॉर्ड from President H. W. Bush forward are now listed.
This list शामिल pardons and commutations.
Tampa ( ) is a नगर in the u.S. state of Florida.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is स्तिथ on the वेस्ट coast of फ्लोरिडा, on tampa खाड़ी निकट the Gulf of Mexico.
the जनसांख्यिकी of Tampa in 2011 was 346,037.
The वर्तमान स्थान of tampa थी एकबार inhabited by स्वदेशी peoples of the Safety Harbor culture, most notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century, but there were no permanent अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर आज 's नगर हद जबतक बाद the संयुक्त राज्य था acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the United States Army established a frontier outpost called Fort Brooke at the mouth of the Hillsborough River, near the site of आज 's tampa सम्मेलन Center.
The पहला civilian निवासियों यहूद pioneers who settled near the fort for protection from the nearby Seminole population.
The town grew slowly until the 1880s, when railroad links, the discovery of फास्फेट, और the आगमन of the सिगार उद्योग jump-started tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s.
आज, tampa is a भाग of the metropolitan area most commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area.
For U.S. Census purposes, Tampa is part of the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, Florida महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
The four-county क्षेत्रफल is रचित of roughly 2.7 million residents, making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the state, and the fourth largest in the Southeastern United States, behind Miami, Washington, D.C., and Atlanta.
The Greater Tampa Bay area has बस over 4 लाख निवासियों और generally शामिल the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas.
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़ा दिखाया an average annual growth of 2.47 percent, or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the Greater Tampa Bay Market experienced a संयुक्त विकास रेट of 14.8 प्रतिशत, growing इससे 3.4 million to 3.9 million and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 people and a 2017 प्रक्षेप of 4,536,854 लोगों.
Tampa has a क्रमांक of sports teams, such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the National Football League, the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League, and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the tampa खाड़ी rowdies of the उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग खेल their home games in neighboring St. Petersburg, Florida.
In 2008, tampa थी क्रमित as the 5th best outdoor city by Forbes.
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square News ranked Tampa as a शीर्ष नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is now क्रमित as a `` गामा '' world city by Loughborough University.
According to Loughborough, Tampa ranks alongside other world cities such as Phoenix, सेंटो डोमिंगो, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market माँग इससे consumers, signaling more wealth concentrated in the area.
tampa hosted the 2012 Republican National Convention.
The शेवरलेट cavalier थी a कॉम्पैक्ट automobile produced from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the company 's J platform, the cavalier उत्पादित the highest sales in 1984.
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly Cingular Wireless LLC ), is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T Inc. that provides बेतार सेवाएं to 107 million subscribers in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
AT & T Mobility is the second largest बेतार दूरसंचार provider in the United States and Puerto Rico, behind Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012.
AT & t गतिशीलता is headquartered in the Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co. Georgia, just outside Atlanta.
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007, a joint venture between SBC Communications and bellsouth, the कम्पनी acquired the बूढ़ा at & t बेतार in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly owned by at & t in दिसम्बर 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth.
In January 2007, Cingular confirmed it would re-brand itself अंतर्गत the at & T name.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, for both regulatory and brand-awareness reasons both ब्रांड्स यहूद प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's साइनेज और विज्ञापन दौरान a transition period.
The परिवर्तन concluded in लेट June, just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, AT & T Mobility घोषित इसके इरादे to acquire t-mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion.
If it had received government and regulatory स्वीकृति, at & T would have had more than 130 million subscribers.
however, the u.S. विभाग of इंसाफ, the Federal Communications Commission, and AT & T Mobility 's competitors ( such as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market.
In December 2011, in the face of दोनो सरकारी और फैली उपभोक्ता opposition, AT & T withdrew their offer to complete the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) was an American clergyman, activist, and leader in the african-american सिविल अधिकारों Movement.
He is best known for his role in the advancement of civil rights using nonviolent सिविल disobedience.
King has become a national icon in the history of American progressivism.
A Baptist minister, King became a सिविल अधिकारों activist early in his career.
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped found the Southern Christian Leadership सम्मेलन ( sclc ) in 1957, serving as its first president.
With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany, Georgia, in 1962, and organized nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम, अलबामा, कि आकर्षित नेशनल attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response.
King also helped to व्यवस्थित the 1963 कूच on Washington, where he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech.
There, he स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as one of the greatest orators in American history.
He also established his reputation as a radical, and became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's cointelpro लिये the बाकी of his life.
FBI agents investigated him for संभावित communist ties, recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials, and on one occasion, mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.
On October 14, 1964, King received the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार लिये combating racial inequality through nonviolence.
In 1965, he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the following साल, he took the movement north to Chicago.
In the final सालो of उसके जीवन, किंग विस्तारित उसके फ़ोकस to include poverty and the Vietnam War, alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was planning a national occupation of वॉशिंगटन, d.C., पुकारा the ग़रीब लोगों 's Campaign.
King was assassinated on अप्रैल 4, 1968, in Memphis, Tennessee.
His death was followed by दंगे in अनेक U.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of हत्या किंग, था महरूम framed or acted in concert with government agents persisted for decades after the shooting, and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King.
King was awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day was established as a U.S. संघीय अवकाश in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have महरूम renamed in his honor.
A memorial statue on the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली to the public in 2011.
the बाघ ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to.
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the ध्रुवीय bear and the brown bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark लंबवत धारियाँ on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside.
It रै exceptional stout दांत, और the canines are the longest among living felids with a crown height of as much as or even.
In zoos, tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years, जिससे भी seems to be उनके आयु in the wild.
They are territorial and generally solitary but social पशु, प्रायः requiring विशाल संलग्न areas of habitat that support their prey requirements.
This, coupled साथ the फैक्ट कि वे हैं स्वदेशी to some of the more densely populated places on Earth, has caused significant conflicts with humans.
Tigers once ranged widely across Asia, from Turkey in the west to the पूर्वी coast of रूस.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic range, and have महरूम extirpated इससे दक्षिणपश्चिम और सेंट्रल एशिया, from the islands of Java and Bali, and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, they range from the Siberian taiga to open grasslands and तीव्र mangrove swamps.
The remaining six tiger subspecies have been वर्गीकृत as endangered by IUCN.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals, bas इससे around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th century, with most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other.
प्रमुख कारण लिये जनसांख्यिकी decline include habitat destruction, habitat fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by टाइगर्स is अनुमानित at less than, a 41 % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
टाइगर्स हैं among the सबसे recognisable and popular of the world 's charismatic megafauna.
They have featured prominently in ancient mythology and लोकगीत, और continue to be depicted in modern films and literature.
टाइगर्स appear on many flags, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
The Bengal बाघ is the नेशनल एनिमल of both India and Bangladesh.
The सरलीकृत आतंरिक structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon डाइऑक्साइड और अन्य यौगिकों into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a हरितलवक outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions take the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further रासायनिक processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : कार्बन fixation, कटौती reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs तभी जब लाइट is available.
Plants do not carry out the calvin cycle by night.
They, instead, रिलीज sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves.
इस प्रक्रम happens जब लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ स्वतंत्र of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 carbon fixation, and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
A लिनेन रूमाल with pulled thread embroidery around the edges
Linen cloth recovered from qumran गुफा 1 निकट the Dead Sea.
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the fibers of the flax संयंत्र, Linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, but जब it is बना into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin and cognates साथ the लैटिन नाम for the flax plant linum, and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ).
This word history has given rise to a number of other शर्तें in अंग्रेज़ी, the सबसे notable of जिससे is the English word line, derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
Textiles in a linen weave texture, even when made of कपास, गांजा और अन्य non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
Such fabrics generally have उनके अपना विशिष्ट names other than linen ; for example, fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam.
The सामूहिक पद `` linens `` is स्टिल प्रायः प्रयुक्त generically to describe a class of woven and even knitted bed, bath, table and kitchen textiles.
The name linens is retained because traditionally, लिनेन थी प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक of these items.
In the past, the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments ऐसे as शर्ट, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a word also cognate with linen ), and detachable shirt collars and cuffs, which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen.
The inside cloth परत of ठीक कम्पोजिट clothing garments ( as for example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen, and this is the origin of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the संसार : उनके इतिहास goes back many thousands of years.
Fragments of straw, seeds, fibers, yarns, and various प्रकार of fabrics जिससे तिथि वापस to परिचय 8000 bc have been found in Swiss lake dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven लिनेन fabrics इससे wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes used as currency in प्राचीन मिश्र.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because it थी देखी as a symbol of light and purity, and as a display of wealth.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, were very fine for their day, but are coarse compared to modern linen.
आज, लिनेन is usually an expensive textile, and is produced in relatively small quantities.
It रै a long `` स्टेपल '' ( individual fiber length ) relative to cotton and other natural fibers.
Many products are made of linen : aprons, bags, towels ( swimmers, bath, beach, body and wash towels ), napkins, bed linens, लिनेन चौके, runners, chair covers, and men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the संसार कप, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The चैंपियनशिप रै महरूम awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are स्पेन, जो जीती the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together साथ the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have won five times, and वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million लोगों देखी the फाइनल match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
The is an expansion device for the वी रिमोट वीडियो खेल नियंत्रक for the Wii that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion.
According to निन्टेंडो, the सेंसर in the यंत्र पूरक the accelerometer और सेंसर बार सामर्थ्य of the वी रिमोट to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time.
The Wii 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the Wii motionplus और इसके peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
Majulah Singapura ( onward सिंगापुर ) is the national anthem of Singapore.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official functions of the City Council of Singapore, the song was चयनित in 1959 as the द्वीप 's गान जब it attained self-government.
Upon full independence in 1965, Majulah Singapura थी formally अपनाया as Singapore 's national anthem.
By विधि the गान may तभी be सुंग साथ its original Malay lyrics, although there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the key of G major, in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched in the lower key of F प्रमुख as इस थी कहा to allow लिये a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement ''.
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day, during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national celebration or नेशनल significance ऐसे as at the नेशनल Day Parade, at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments, and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the construction of जहाजों और फ्लोटिंग vessels.
It normally takes place in a specialized सुविधा known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, also called shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation कि traces its roots to before recorded history.
Shipbuilding and जलयान मरम्मत, दोनो वाणिज्यिक and military, are referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The construction of boats is a समान कार्यकलाप पुकारा boat building.
The dismantling of जहाजों is पुकारा ship breaking.
wakonda is a कस्बा in मिट्टी काउंटी, South Dakota, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 321 at the 2010 census.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated places of the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, सहित city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
कुछ संचित city-counties, however, include multiple incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that हैं नहीं a भाग of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers तभी to the जनसांख्यिकी of individual municipalities within their defined limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
alt=larger flashcart, shown with small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images, homebrew video खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक खेल ( चूंकि the निन्टेंडो ds is नहीं बेची साथ a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed developers, however, can उपयोग a ब्लू Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards.
These devices are also known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are दो प्रमुख वर्ग of flashcarts : पुरानी डिवाइस which fit in Slot-2 ( the Game Boy Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use साथ खेल लड़के अग्रिम ), लकिन आवश्यकता a booting औजार in Slot-1 in order to use the touch screen and other DS features.
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do नहीं कार्य साथ gba homebrew, लकिन became कम महंगी और easier to use, rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price.
First-generation devices include GBA फ्लैश कारतूस, gbamp CF, SuperCard, and M3.
Second-generation devices include r4 क्रान्ति, CycloDS, G6 Real and DS-X.
The storage device either contains flash मेमोरी or a स्लॉट लिये a मेमोरी card to store homebrew.
Storage devices साथ a memory-card स्लॉट usually have more storage capacity than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( mb ), memory-card क्षमता is प्रायः measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in उनके support लिये homebrew ; ds और खेल Boy Advance ROMs ; special features ( such as ability to play media files ) ; physical size and cost.
सख्ती बोलना, a भंडार device is not necessary for DS with FlashMe installed because homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB.
However, इस is नहीं an easily-portable विधि because the DS needs to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi card.
are American people of जापानी heritage.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian American समुदायों, लकिन in हाल दशकों, it रै become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286, including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were found in California with 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, New York with 37,780, वॉशिंगटन साथ 35,008, और इलिनोइस with 17,542.
Southern California रै the largest japanese-american population in North America.
200px
This is a comprehensive listing जिससे हाइलाइट significant उपलब्धियाँ और माइलस्टोन based upon Billboard magazine 's singles charts, most notably the Billboard Hot 100.
This list spans from the issue dated जनवरी 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue dated August 4, 1958, and is फिलहाल the मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट in the United States.
Prior to the सृष्टि of the hot 100, Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '', `` Most Played by Jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These charts, which ranged इससे 20 to 100 slots, were phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart history, their data is included for computational purposes, and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All वस्तुएं सूचीबद्ध below are from the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ).
V is an American science fiction television series कि भागा लिये दो सीज़न on ABC, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the new series chronicles the आगमन on धरती of a technologically उन्नत एलियन species which ostensibly comes in peace, but actually has sinister motives.
V stars Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, Morris Chestnut, Joel Gretsch, Logan Huffman, Charles Mesure, Elizabeth Mitchell, Laura Vandervoort और स्कॉट भेड़िया, और थी कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by Scott Rosenbaum, Yves Simoneau, Scott Peters, and Jace Hall.
The series was produced by The स्कॉट पीटर्स कम्पनी, HDFilms and Warner Bros. Television.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in जिससे the भागीदार उपयोग a वैश्विक positioning प्रणाली ( gps ) receiver or मोबाईल यंत्र और अन्य navigational techniques to hide and seek containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A typical cache is a छोटी waterproof container containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the date they found it and signs it with their established code name.
After signing into the log, the cache must be placed back exactly जहाँ the person found it.
Larger containers such as प्लास्टिक भंडार containers ( tupperware or समान ) or ammunition बाक्स can also contain items for trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group कि थी originally रचित of krs-one, D-Nice, and DJ Scott La Rock.
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on August 27, 1987, महीने बाद the रिलीज of bdp 's debut album, Criminal Minded.
The name of the group, Boogie Down, गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम लिये the दक्षिण Bronx section of The Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New York City.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the स्टेज लिये कया होता आखिरकार become gangsta rap.
A municipal bond is a bond issued by a local government, or उनके एजेंसियों.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states, cities, counties, redevelopment agencies, special-purpose districts, school districts, public utility districts, publicly owned airports and seaports, और कोई अन्य सरकारी entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level.
नगरपालिका bonds may be सामान्य obligations of the issuer or secured by specified revenues.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, ब्याज आय प्राप्त by धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the state in which they are issued, although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt.
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is sold, municipal bonds are free to trade at any time once वे हैं खरीदा by the investor.
Professional traders regularly trade और retrade the वही bonds अनेक टाइम्स a week.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve winwood, स्पेंसर डेविस और muff winwood, और originally performed by The Spencer Davis Group.
The basic riff of the song was उधार इससे the होमर बैंको सोंग `` ( Ai n't That ) A Lot of Love '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a uk # 2 in the Autumn of 1966 and a US # 7.
The song is क्रमित # 247 on the रोलिंग Stone magazine 's list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is different from that issued in the US on the United Artists label, being slower, and lacking the बैकिंग vocals और `` सजीव sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( The US version रै अधिक प्रायः महरूम used on reissue CDs, even those coming from Europe. )
the सिंगल features the sound of the Hammond B-3 organ.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an ऑनलाइन डेटाबेस of सूचना related to films, television programs, and video games.
This includes अभिनेताओं, उत्पादन क्रू कर्मियों, और fictional characters featured in these three visual entertainment media.
It is one of the most popular online entertainment गंतव्यों, साथ over 100 लाख अद्वितीय उपयोक्ता प्रत्येक माह and a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb थी शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 17, 1990, and in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, IMDb had 2,503,783 titles ( includes episodes ) and 5,192,493 personalities in इसके डेटाबेस, as खूब as 43 लाख registered users.
The जालस्थल has an Alexa rank of 48.
fibre चैनल मेजबान Bus Adapter ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
scsi मेजबान बस Adapter ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware, a host controller, मेजबान एडाप्टर, or मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices.
The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting scsi, fibre चैनल और esata डिवाइस.
However, devices for connecting to आईडीई, ईथरनेट, firewire, USB and other systems may also be called host adapters.
Recently, the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over ईथरनेट रै brought परिचय ईथरनेट hbas, जिससे are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines.
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network adapters ( CNAs ).
cashmere Scarves
आधुनिक men 's cashmere sweaters for sale.
Cashmere wool, usually simply known as cashmere, is a रेशा प्राप्त इससे cashmere बकरियों और अन्य प्रकार of goat.
The शब्द cashmere गर्भाशयी from an old spelling of Kashmir.
Cashmere is ठीक in बनावट, दमदार, light, and soft.
garments बना इससे it provide excellent insulation.
In the United States, under the U.S. Wool Products labeling अधिनियम of 1939, as amended, ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), states that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool product is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers उत्पादित by a cashmere बकरी ( capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of ऐसे wool product does not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool उत्पाद करता नहीं contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 microns.
The average fiber diameter may be subject to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty खुदरा स्टोर्स in the संयुक्त राज्य, साथ स्टोर्स स्तिथ throughout the Eastern seaboard, in the Midwest, on the West Coast and in the Southwest.
The company was founded in 1975 और is आधारित in Woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial नुकसान ''.
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture retailers with US $ 114 million in sales for the year ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently उभरा इससे अध्याय 11 अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of its major supplier, the Haining Mengnu Group.
Egg roll is a पद प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक अलग foods around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are मिला in मेनलैंड चीन, अनेक chinese-speaking regions of Asia, and Chinese immigrant communities around the world.
Egg rolls as referred to in चीन.
In Guangdong and Hong काँग, अंडा फेंकें usually refers to biscuit roll.
This is a type of बिस्किट.
the संघटक included egg, flour and sugar.
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton and Hong Kong, this is usually बना साथ सब्ज़ी.
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are not as commonly खपत in the north and western parts of China.
In American Chinese cuisine, an अंडा फेंकें is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, pork or shrimp, cabbage, carrots, tomatoes, सेम sprouts और अन्य vegetables, and then deep fried.
This variety of the egg roll is very common and popular, across even regional किस्में of अमरीकी चाइनीज खाना, और is प्रायः शामिल as part of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, Canada, open-ended eggrolls हैं a jewish-chinese fusion dish.
They can be either कोषेर certified or merely kosher style.
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical and emotional stress caused from an injury ( see also पीड़ा और कष्ट ).
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches, अस्थाई and permanent limitations on activity, potential shortening of life, depression or scarring.
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury, it is common for someone to seek money both in compensation for actual money कि is खोया और लिये the पीड़ा and stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's claim, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति कि allows रिकवरी लिये the दिमागी anguish and/or शारीरिक पीड़ा endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, मध्यस्थता ( दोनो of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or गैर litigated दावा ) as खूब as in दिनचर्या बीमे settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by वकील प्रायः उपस्थित मांगे to insurers to settle for money.
These demand for bodily चोट मुआवजे monies प्रायः set out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings.
Demands are usually written summaries of a claimant 's चिकित्सा परवाह और the facts which resulted in the injury.
Sample of a medallion हस्ताक्षर guarantee stampIn
the United States and Canada, a medallion signature guarantee is a खास हस्ताक्षर गारंटी लिये the transfer of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the हस्ताक्षर is वास्तविक और the वित्तीय institution accepts liability for any forgery.
Signature guarantees protect शेयरधारकों by preventing unauthorized transfers and possible investor losses.
They also limit the liability of the ट्रांसफ़र agent who accepts the certificates.
अलग संस्थानों have different policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the guarantee and whether they charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ).
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature of किसी जो रै नहीं already महरूम their customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the sense that a `` signature guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is authentic, और an acknowledgment is a प्रमाणन by a नोटरी पब्लिक attesting कि the signer हस्ताक्षरित a document voluntarily.
Some banks may no longer provide this service, however, many still do as well as अन्य वित्तीय संस्थानों such as a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions.
At their sole discretion, ये संस्थानों may still decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees.
When US citizens are विदेश, कुछ वित्तीय संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास Seals, in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल द्वीप, लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, March 1956
The General Motors स्ट्रीटकार षड्यंत्र ( भी known as the Great American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations and convictions in relation to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 शहरों सहित बाल्टीमोर, Newark, Los Angeles, New York City, Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation.
Several of the companies involved were convicted in 1949 of षड्यंत्र to monopolize अंतरराज्यीय commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies.
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, who first drew attention to the कार्यक्रम in 1946, और तब ब्रैडफोर्ड C. snell, an anti-trust attorney लिये the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट जिनकी विवादास्पद 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness.
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars was part of a larger strategy to push the United States into automobile dependency.
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit system, including the Great Depression, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, labor unrest, market forces, rapidly increasing ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, शहरी sprawl, कराधान नीतियों कि favored निजी गाडी स्वामित्व, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has suggested that snell और अन्य गिरी into simplistic षड्यंत्र theory thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, GM waged a war on electric traction.
It थी बेशक an सब आउट उत्पीड़न, but by no means the single reason for the failure of rapid transit.
Also, it is just as clear that actions and inactions by government contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport प्रणालियों आधारित on streetcars or trams, सहित न्यूर्क, फिलाडेल्फिया, सैन फ्रांसिस्को, Pittsburgh, and Boston ; others are re-introducing them.
The story has been explored several times in छपाई, फिल्मी और अन्य मीडिया, notably in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia.
Corwin House, Salem, मैसाचुसेट्स, निर्मित ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the colonial period of the संयुक्त राज्य, including First Period English ( late-medieval ), French Colonial, Spanish Colonial, Dutch Colonial and Georgian.
These styles are associated with the houses, churches and सरकारी इमारतें of the period from about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` in the मनोदशा '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by American bandleader Glenn Miller.
It topped the चार्ट in 1940 in the U.S. and one year later was featured in the movie Sun Valley Serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए bluebird on the npr 100, the सूची of `` the 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century ''.
वरुण logo
The NEPTUNE Canada प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and विश्वविद्यालयों around the world.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a unique दृष्टिकोण to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research, जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely operated crawler.
A gramophone record, commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ), vinyl record ( in reference to विनाइल, the सामग्री सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त बाद परिचय 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a रिकार्ड '', is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove usually starts near the periphery and ends near the center of the disc.
Phonograph records are generally वर्णित by उनके व्यास in इंच ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, इत्यादि. ), the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', etc. ), and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph records were the primary medium used लिये म्यूज़िक जनन for most of the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder, with which it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the late 1980s, डिजिटल मीडिया था gained a larger market share, and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured और बेची in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 million units shipped, the most in any year since 1998 और the format has continued to slowly regain popularity.
They are especially used by DJs और audiophiles लिये अनेक प्रकार of music.
As of 2013, विनाइल रिकॉर्ड continue to be used for distribution.
घासभूमि in the Santa Rosa Plateau, California.
Grassland in the antelope घाटी, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the Flint Hills of northeastern कान्सास.
A grassland in the Philippines.
An Inner Mongolian grassland in the People 's गणतंत्र of चीन
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is वर्चस्व by grasses ( पोएसी ), however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except अंटार्कटिक.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in North America, native grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species, whereas in warmer climates annual प्रजाति form a greater component of the vegetation.
Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the धरती.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands बायोम ( ' ecosystem ' ), जिससे is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis, also called हिना पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering plant, the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The English name `` henna '' comes from the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also used for डाई preparations निकला इससे the संयंत्र, and for the art of temporary tattooing based on those dyes.
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin, hair, and fingernails, as खूब as fabrics सहित रेशा, wool and leather.
additionally, the name is misused for other skin and hair dyes, such as black henna or neutral henna, which are not derived from the plant.
A thin film is a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor डिवाइस और optical coatings are the main applications benefiting from thin-film construction.
A familiar अनुप्रयोग of पतला films is the household mirror, which typically has a thin metal coating on the back of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface.
The process of silvering was once commonly प्रयुक्त to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer मोटा ) is प्रयुक्त to produce two-way mirrors.
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or AR, coatings ) are typically enhanced when the thin-film coating consists of अनेक परतों having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of alternating thin films of different materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of क्वांटम कारावास by restricting इलेक्ट्रॉनिक phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being done साथ ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as computer memory.
It is also being लागू to pharmaceuticals, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to produce thin-film बैटरी.
Thin films are भी प्रयुक्त in dye-sensitized solar cells.
सिरेमिक पतला films are in wide use.
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of पतला कोटिंग of interest for protection of substrate materials against corrosion, oxidation and wear.
In particular, the उपयोग of ऐसे coatings on cutting tools can extend the life of these items by several orders of magnitude.
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film inorganic ऑक्साइड सामग्री, पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides, which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person shooter video game developed by एपिक खेल और प्रकाशित by microsoft Game Studios.
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America, Australia, and most of यूरोपीय और शामिल a `` सीमित कलेक्टर 's संस्करण '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year later, featuring new content including additional campaign स्तर, a नई एकाधिक खेल विधि, और खेल लिये Windows Live functionality.
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to सहेजें the बाकी इंसान निवासियों of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde.
The player assumes the role of Marcus Fenix ( but can also खेल as डोमिनिक सैंटियागो ), a पूर्व कैदी and war-hardened soldier.
The game is based on the use of cover and strategic fire for the player to advance through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
The खेल भी features several online multiplayer game modes for up to eight players.
Gears of War sold over तीन लाख नक़ल in बस टेन सप्ताह और थी the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of सब समय.
The game has since sold over पाँच million copies by September 2008.
The game was well received by critics, who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals, and it won अनेक `` खेल of the साल '' पुरस्कार in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise, including the 2008 sequel गियर्स of युद्ध 2 और इसके follow-up, गियर्स of युद्ध 3, जिससे थी released on सितंबर 20, 2011, बाद having initially been set to have been released on April 5, 2011, the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.
Adaptations to books, कॉमिक्स, as well as a feature film are to be expected.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel लिखा by बेट्टी स्मिथ.
The story focuses on an Irish-American family in williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York City.
The अनोखा is नियत in the पहला और दूसरी decades of the 20th century.
the किताब was an immense success.
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven, native to China and Taiwan, now माना हृदयरोग, और आम in the vacant lots of New York City.
World map with the intertropical मण्डल highlighted in red.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where all twelve months have mean temperatures ऊपर 18 °c ( 64 °f ).
The tropics is a प्रदेश of the Earth surrounding the Equator.
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at approximately N and the Tropic of Capricorn in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध at s ; ये latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं भी referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ).
The tropics include all the areas on the धरती जहाँ the सूर्य reaches a point directly overhead at least once during the solar year.
The tropics are विशिष्ट इससे the अन्य climatic और biomatic regions of Earth, the middle latitudes and the polar regions on either side of the equatorial zone.
For the INXS song, see What You need ( सोंग ).
`` What You Need '' is an episode of the American television anthology श्रेणी the गोधूलि Zone.
It is based on the short story of the same नाम by लुईस padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest थिएटर जटिल in the संयुक्त राज्य, second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the जल्दी 1920s, the थिएटर यहूद subsequently closed down, but were revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड, और थी पुकारा `` एक of the top ten successes in Cleveland history. ''
The driver and passenger front airbags, बाद having महरूम तैनात, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
An airbag is a vehicle सुरक्षा यंत्र.
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible fabric लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their bodies when वे स्ट्राइक आंतरिक वस्तुएँ ऐसे as the परिचालन व्हील or a खिड़की.
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions, and sensors may तैनात एक or अधिक airbags in an प्रभाव मण्डल at परिवर्तनीय दरों आधारित on the प्रकार, angle and severity of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes.
Airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing the सुरक्षा of an occupant जो is correctly restrained with a seatbelt.
सबसे डिजाइन हैं inflated through pyrotechnic means and can only be operated once.
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of संपीडित एयर सिलेंडर that are triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact.
The first commercial designs were introduced in यात्री ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान the 1970s with limited success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in अनेक बाज़ार दौरान the लेट 1980s और early 1990s with a driver airbag, and a front passenger airbag as well on some cars ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units.
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial information to the आतंरिक आय सेवा ( IRS ) of the United States.
They are used to report income, गणना कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त States, and disclose other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ).
वहीँ हैं over 800 various forms and schedules.
The best-known of these is Form 1040 प्रयुक्त by individuals.
In the United States, driver 's licenses are issued by each व्यक्तिगत राज्य ( सहित वॉशिंगटन, D.C. and territories ), rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism.
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their state of residence and all states recognize each other 's licenses for अस्थाई विज़िटर विषय to सामान्य age requirements.
A state may भी बर्खास्तगी an individual 's driving privilege within its borders for traffic violations.
Many states share a common system of license वर्ग, साथ कुछ अपवाद, और वाणिज्यिक license classes are standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383.
चीन रै महरूम the सोर्स of अनेक आविष्कारों, सहित the Four Great Inventions : papermaking, the compass, gunpowder, and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ).
The list below contains ये और other inventions.
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, और गणित लागू to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, कृषि, अभियान्त्रिकी, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ), they had advanced metallurgic technology, including the blast furnace और cupola भट्टी, जबकि the finery forge और puddling प्रक्रम यहूद ज्ञात by the हान Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated economic system in China gave birth to inventions ऐसे as पेपर धन दौरान the सोंग राजवंश ( 960–1279 ).
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of आविष्कारों ऐसे as the आग तलवार, जमीन मेरा, नवल mine, hand cannon, exploding cannonballs, multistage rocket, and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at high sea with the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern चाइनीज sailors sailed as दूर as ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी and Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern चाइनीज था प्रयुक्त the escapement यांत्रिकी since the 8th century and the endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century.
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons चलित by चप्पू व्हील boats.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of चीन और यहूद formed around 7000 BC.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives, stone hoes and spades, the cultivation of millet, rice and the soybean, the refinement of sericulture, the भवन of rammed धरती structures साथ लाइम -plastered हाउस floors, the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's व्हील, the सृष्टि of pottery साथ cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c. 2000 BC ) period, the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops, full evidence of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal crops which gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated, '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube बीज ड्रिल और भारी moldboard iron plow, China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population.
For the purposes of इस सूची, आविष्कारों हैं regarded as technological firsts विकसित in China, and as such does not include foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact, such as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe.
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately by the Chinese, such as the odometer and chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or natural discoveries, changes in minor concepts of design or style and कलाकारी नवप्रवर्तनों can नहीं be regarded as आविष्कारों and do not appear on the list.
सकल घरेलू product in 2011 US dollars per capita, adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011, with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( red ), China ( red ), and India ( blue ).
वैश्वीकरण ( or globalisation—see स्पेलिंग differences ) is the process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple terms, globalization refers to processes कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources.
Advances in transportation and telecommunications infrastructure, including the rise of the Internet, are प्रमुख कारकों in वैश्वीकरण, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities.
Though several scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times, others trace its history long पहले the यूरोपीय आयु of डिस्कवरी और voyages to the नई संसार.
Some even trace the origins to the third मिलेनियम BCE.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of globalization has intensified at a रैपिड रेट, विशेषकर दौरान the पोस्ट ठंडा युद्ध era.
The term globalization has been in increasing use since the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade और ट्रांजेक्शन, पूंजी और निवेश आंदोलनों, माइग्रेशन और गति of people and the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary water and air प्रदूषण, और over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization.
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work संगठन, अर्थशास्त्र, socio-cultural resources, and the natural environment.
The Replacements is a 2000 American sports comedy film निर्देशित by हावर्ड deutch.
It सितारों कियानू रीव्स, जीन Hackman, and Brooke Langton.
An American Airlines वायुयान takes off from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
This airport is the एयरलाइन 's largest hub.
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations and 78 international गंतव्यों in 48 देशों.
( as of दिसम्बर 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the codes of the International Air Transport संघ ( iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) and the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO airport code ), and the airport 's name, with the airline 's hubs, focus cities and seasonal destinations marked.
The list also contains destinations no longer परोसा by the एयरलाइन, जिससे हैं चिह्नित as terminated destinations.
It करता नहीं शामिल गंतव्यों परोसा लिये अमरीकी Airlines by its regional affiliates American Eagle Airlines, Executive Airlines, and AmericanConnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known version of which was sung by Harry Belafonte and an alternate version interspersed with another jamaican folksong, हिल और गुल्ली सवार, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento प्रभाव, `` day-o ( the Banana Boat Song ) '' is widely known as an example of calypso music.
it is a work song, from the point of view of dock workers working the night shift loading bananas onto ships.
Daylight has come, the shift is over and they want उनके कार्य to be counted up so that they can go home.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants यहूद मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 जुलाई, the austro-hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 और Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
जर्मनी, जिससे था its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe थी redrawn into अनेक smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Nurse Jackie is an American series that premiered on June 8, 2009, on showtime, Movie Central and The Movie Network.
The series stars Edie Falco as the शीर्षक अक्षर जैकी Peyton, an emergency department nurse at All Saints ' Hospital in New York City.
For Jackie, `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling patients, डॉक्टर, fellow नर्स और उसके अपना indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on October 14, 2007, on E !.
It follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner family, including sisters कोर्टनी, किम, और khloé Kardashian.
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim Take New York, Khloé & Lamar, कोर्टनी और Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the Islamic Republic of अफगानिस्तान, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming भाग of South Asia, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately, making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world.
It is bordered by Pakistan in the दक्षिण और the ईस्ट, इरान in the वेस्ट, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north, and China in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has been an ancient फोकल पाइंट of the Silk Road and human migration.
Archaeologists have found evidence of human habitation from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic.
Urban civilization may have begun in the क्षेत्रफल as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East culture with Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent, the land has been home to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns, notably by सिकंदर the ग्रेट, चंगेज़ खान, and in modern era Western forces.
The land also served as a सोर्स इससे जिससे the greco-bactrians, Kushans, Hephthalites, Saffarids, Ghaznavids, Ghorids, Khiljis, Timurids, Mughals, Durranis, and others have risen to form major empires.
The राजनैतिक इतिहास of the आधुनिक state of Afghanistan begins in 1709, when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747.
In the late 19th सदी, अफगानिस्तान became a बफ़र state in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires.
following the 1919 anglo-afghan युद्ध, किंग अमानुल्ला began a European style modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947, the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading influences in Afghanistan, which led to a खूनी युद्ध between the us-backed मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां और the soviet-backed अफगान government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This was followed by the 1990s civil war, the वृद्धि और पतन of the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain सुरक्षा in अफगानिस्तान और assist the करज़ई प्रशासन.
Three decades of war बना अफगानिस्तान one of the world 's most dangerous countries, including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers.
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan, terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a देशभर Taliban -led insurgency, which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
According to the United Nations, the insurgents were responsible for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, republicans, led by अब्राहम Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
आठ बाकी स्लेव states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
lincoln जारी the emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was एक of the earliest सच्चा industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत.
Historian John huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a कारोबार रै बेची दौरान a particular period.
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of several formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( fifo ), or औसत cost.
Costs include all costs of purchase, costs of परिवर्तन और अन्य costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Costs of goods made by the business शामिल सामग्री, labor, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods नहीं yet बेची हैं deferred as costs of inventory until the inventory is sold or written down in value.
Freak Lunchbox कैंडी स्टोर in Halifax, Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom, a candy store in the North America, or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery और is प्रायः targeted to children.
Most confectionery stores are भर साथ an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate.
They often offer a selection of old fashioned ट्रीट, और मिठाई इससे different countries.
Very often unchanged in layout since their inception, confectioneries are ज्ञात लिये उनके वार्मिंग and nostalgic feel.
The village of pateley सेतु claims to have the oldest confectionery store in England.
the oldest मीठी दूकान in England, in the village of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa, cay : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive और the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is derived from the choctaw शब्द okla और humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें the संघ.
इसके निवासियों हैं ज्ञात as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural गैस, आयल, और कृषि, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रों.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, और पूर्वी वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट Plains and the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a व्यापकता of अंग्रेज़ी, जर्मनी, Scottish, Irish and Native American ancestry, more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is स्तिथ on a संगम of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives, a destination for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Stacked and standing car टायर
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a व्हील 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance.
Most tires, such as those for automobiles and bicycles, provide traction between the गाडी और the सड़क जबकि providing a लचीली cushion that absorbs shock.
The materials of modern pneumatic tires are synthetic rubber, natural rubber, fabric and wire, साथ साथ कार्बन ब्लैक और अन्य chemical compounds.
वे consist of a tread and a body.
The tread provides traction while the देह provides containment लिये a quantity of compressed air.
Before rubber was developed, the first versions of tires were simply bands of metal that fitted around लकड़ी पहियों to prevent wear and tear.
Early rubber tires were ठोस ( नहीं न्यूमेटिक ).
Today, the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally भर साथ compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
न्यूमेटिक टायर हैं प्रयुक्त on अनेक types of vehicles, including cars, bicycles, motorcycles, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars, and solid rubber ( or other polymer ) tires are still प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न non-automotive अनुप्रयोग, ऐसे as कुछ casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an American doctor who played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American क्रान्ति, आखिरकार सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the क्रांतिकारी मैसाचुसेट्स Provincial Congress.
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and विलियम dawes on अप्रैल 18, 1775, to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the British garrison in Boston was setting out to raid the town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams.
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of lexington और concord, जिससे हैं commonly माना to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
Warren had been commissioned a Major सामान्य in the उपनिवेश 's militia shortly before the June 17, 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his rank, Warren served in the battle as a private soldier, and was मारे in कॉम्बैट जब अंग्रेजों सैनिकों stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill.
His death, immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting, The Death of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's Hill, June 17, 1775, galvanized the rebel forces, और he has been memorialized in many place names in the United States.
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the organic सेमीकंडक्टर quinacridone on Graphite.
an सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is an सशुल्क सामग्री साथ semiconductor properties, that is, with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals.
सिंगल अणुओं, छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small molecules ( खुशबूदार hydrocarbons ) शामिल the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
polymeric सशुल्क semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ), poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There are two major overlapping classes of organic semiconductors.
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene.
Linear backbone organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself और इसके डेरिवेटिव polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer complexes often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors.
Such mechanisms arise from the presence of hole and electron conduction layers अलग by a बैंड gap.
While such classic mechanisms are important locally, as with inorganic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, स्थानीयकृत राज्य, गतिशीलता gaps, and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
Like inorganic semiconductors, organic semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping such as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals.
Typical वर्तमान वाहक in सशुल्क semiconductors are holes and electrons in π-bonds.
Almost all organic solids हैं insulators.
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate प्रणालियों, electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling and related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons और phthalocyanine salt crystals are examples of this type of organic semiconductor.
Mainly due to low mobility, even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer देवालय.
Such unpaired electrons can फलन as current carriers.
This type of semiconductor is also obtained by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता अणु with an electron acceptor molecule.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the मादा urethra दौरान or पहले an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be अलग phenomena in कुछ शोध publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals, which is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the अस्तित्व of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the senior women 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ), the खेल 's global governing body.
The championship has महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural tournament in 1991.
जापानी won the 2011 tournament in a penalty shootout.
The current format of the tournament involves 16 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in women 's football and is played amongst women 's national फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the member states of FIFA, the sport 's global governing body.
The पहला महिलाओं 's संसार कप टूर्नामेंट, नामित the महिलाओं 's संसार चैंपियनशिप, was held in 1991, sixty-one years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930.
The six World कप tournaments have महरूम जीती by चार different national teams.
The next World Cup will be hosted by कनाडा in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers, first published in the United States by हार्पर & पंक्ति on June 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th सदी Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias, now at Beth Hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the अनुवाद of विभिन्न यहूदी and Greek phrases used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament.
It has diverse meanings, ranging from a normal human होने to a prophesied अनन्त, दैवी शासक.
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears एक सौ और seven times in the Hebrew Bible.
This is the most common Hebrew construction for the singular but is प्रयुक्त ज़्यादातर in ezekiel ( 93 टाइम्स ) और 14 टाइम्स elsewhere.
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` बेटे of मेन '', i.e. human beings.
As generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the koine यूनानी of the New Testament, `` the son of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा, और पहले its use there, no records of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist.
geza vermes has stated that `` the Son of man '' in the Christian gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages.
In Christian usage, unlike the Son of God title, which रै महरूम an अनिवार्य तत्व of ईसाई creeds since the Apostolic age, the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 सालो of debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars.
Master of foxhounds लीड the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham Castle in Devon, England, with the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, and sometimes killing of a fox, traditionally a red fox, by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds, और a समूह of निहत्थे अनुसरणकर्ता led by a निपुण of foxhounds, जो follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th सदी, लकिन is practised सब over the संसार, सहित in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा, फ़्रांस, आयरलैंड, Italy and the United States.
In Australia, the पद भी refers to the hunting of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the संसार शिकार in सामान्य is समझा to सुनाना to कोई खेल पशु or हथियार ( e.g., हिरण शिकार साथ धनुष और arrow ) ; in Britain and Ireland, `` hunting '' without qualification implies fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling, stag hunting, mink hunting, drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here.
The sport is controversial, particularly in the UK, where it was banned in Scotland in 2002, and in England and Wales in नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि enforced इससे फ़रवरी 2005 ), हालांकि शूटिंग foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural culture and useful for कारण of संरक्षण and pest control, while opponents argue that it is cruel and unnecessary.
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship, विशेषकर of sporting events.
It is now एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regulated forms of marketing.
Some or all फ़ॉर्म of tobacco advertising are banned in many countries.
Bally Technologies, Inc. is a manufacturer of slot machines and other gaming technology आधारित in लास वेगास, Nevada.
The company was founded in 1968 as उन्नत पेटेंट प्रौद्योगिकी.
It eventually changed इसके नाम to गठबंधन Gaming and acquired, in 1996, Bally Gaming International, a former division of Bally Manufacturing.
In 2006, the entire company adopted the Bally name, a ट्रेडमार्क कि originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation.
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; here, दांते is खोया in canto 1 of the Inferno.
Inferno ( Italian for `` Hell `` ) is the पहला भाग of दांते एलीगियरी 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy.
It is followed by purgatorio and Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through नरक, हिदायत by the Roman poet Virgil.
In the poem, Hell is depicted as nine circles of suffering located within the धरती.
Allegorically, the दैवी कॉमेडी represents the यात्रा of the आत्मा towards God, with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin.
Smirnoff is a brand of वोदका स्वामित्व और produced by the British company Diageo.
The Smirnoff brand began with a vodka distillery संस्थापित in मास्को by pyotr arsenievich smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is now distributed in 130 देशों.
It is produced in several countries including India, आयरलैंड, इटली, the संयुक्त किंगडम and the United States.
Smirnoff उत्पाद शामिल वोदका, flavoured vodka, and malt beverages.
in कूच 2006, diageo North America claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled April 10, 2005 in केंटकी ) is a रिटायर्ड चैंपियन American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes.
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's monticule खेतो in Lexington, Kentucky, he won his first five race starts.
He was sired by Grade III winner boundary, a son of North American Champion sire Danzig, a son of Northern Dancer.
Big Brown 's dam was Mien, also a granddaughter of उत्तरी नर्तकी through उसके sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity दुआ is the आम नाम लिये an originally untitled prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been adopted by Alcoholics बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step programs.
The best-known form is : God, ग्रान्ट me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The courage to बदलें the बाते I can,
और अक्ल to know the difference.
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights, or the Declaration of अधिकारों ), थी a बयान अपनाया by the पहला महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14, 1774, in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament.
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the असहनीय अधिनियमों, सूचीबद्ध a औपनिवेशिक विधेयक of अधिकारों, और provided a detailed list of grievances.
It was similar to the Declaration of Rights and Grievances, passed by the स्टैम्प अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस a decade earlier.
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the Continental Association ) until their grievances were redressed, to publish addresses to the people of Great ब्रिटेन और अंग्रेजों अमेरिका, और to भेजें a याचिका to the King.
Pulse pressure is the दबाव कि is लगा जब feeling the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the दबाव अंतर between the systolic और diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse, which is the pulse pressure.
If resting रक्त दबाव is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), pulse pressure is 40.
The Hills is a reality television series जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी from May 31, 2006 until July 13, 2010.
The show uses a reality television format, following the personal lives of several young adults living in Los Angeles, California, but tends towards a narrative स्वरूप अधिक commonly मिला in scripted जाति ऐसे as soap operas.
The series originally followed the personal life of former Laguna बीच स्टार लॉरेन कोनराड और उसके मित्रों ' नई जीवनदान in लॉस एंजिल्स.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series and was replaced by another former Laguna Beach star, Kristin Cavallari, beginning in the दूसरी हाफ of the fifth season.
The series concluded at the समाप्त of the sixth season.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the पिछला 25 सालो, '' stating कि the श्रेणी थी a `` New Classic. ''
AOL TV called it TV 's Biggest अपराधी ख़ुशी.
The series premiered in syndication in the पतन of 2009 alongside लगुना बीच : The Real Orange County.
In poker, bad beat is a subjective पद लिये a हाथ in जिससे a खिलाड़ी with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger हाथ and their opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` hits '' and wins.
There is no consensus among poker खिलाड़ी as to कया exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater मछली in the परिवार Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes.
it थी एक of the earliest fish to be domesticated, and is one of the most commonly kept aquarium fish.
A relatively small member of the कार्प परिवार ( जिससे भी शामिल the कोई कार्प and the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia.
It was first domesticated in China more than a thousand years ago, and अनेक पृथक breeds have चूंकि महरूम विकसित.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size, देह shape, fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations of white, yellow, orange, red, brown, and black are known ).
uncooked rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually consisting of bacon, प्याज, सरसों और अचार लपेटा in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked.
In some countries, the roulade is भी known as `` beef olive ''.
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food scholars tend to believe that the original version was probably venison or पोर्क, और pork is still popular in some areas.
The beef rouladen as we know them today have become लोकप्रिय over the last century.
The cut is usually topside beef or silverside चूंकि इस is the सस्ता cut.
The more महंगी संस्करण होता be the round steak, also known as rump steak.
The meat is काटें into large, thin slices.
the भरना is a मिश्रण of स्मोक्ड और पकाया पोर्क belly, chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at times varied by adding minced meat, sausage meat, pine nuts and mustard.
The mixture varies इससे region to region.
Rouladen are traditionally परोसा लिये dinner.
Red wine is प्रायः served with this dish.
Typical eukaryotic cell.
Cellular श्वसन is the नियत of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is एक of the कुंजी ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular श्वसन is माना an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the देह, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly करता नहीं resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
This difference is because it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no सिंगल reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar, amino acids and fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is आणविक ऑक्सीजन ( o2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, सहित जैवसंश्लेषण, locomotion or परिवहन of molecules across cell membranes.
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the सीआईए संसार factbook.
This article includes a list of देशों in the संसार sorted by उनके सकल domestic product ( GDP ), the market value of all final goods and services from a nation in a given year.
The GDP dollar estimates प्रस्तुत here are calculated at market or government official exchange rates.
Several economies which are not considered to be countries ( world, the eu, और कुछ निर्भर territories ) हैं शामिल in the lists because they appear in the sources.
These economies are not ranked in the चार्ट यहाँ, लकिन हैं listed where applicable.
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries, and the परिणाम can vary greatly इससे एक साल to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency.
Such fluctuations may change a country 's ranking from one year to the next, even though they often make छोटी or no अंतर to the standard of living of its population.
Therefore these figures should be प्रयुक्त साथ सावधानी.
Some countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे हैं on average wealthy.
These countries/regions could appear in this list as having a small GDP.
इस होता be क्युकी the country/region सूचीबद्ध has a small population, and therefore small total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita.
Comparisons of national wealth are also frequently made on the basis of purchasing power parity ( PPP ), to adjust लिये मतभेद in the लागत of जीना in अलग countries.
( See List of देशों by GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but has its own drawbacks ; it does not reflect the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, और it भी requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
On the whole, ppp प्रति capita आंकड़े हैं more narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
The first list includes data compiled by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र आंकडे प्रभाग for 2011.
The दूसरी सूची largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International Monetary Fund for 2012.
The third list shows the World Bank 's ज़्यादातर 2011 estimates, और the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook.
Lapping is a machining प्रक्रम, in जिससे दो सतहों हैं मला साथ साथ an abrasive between them, by hand movement or by way of a machine.
This can take दो फ़ॉर्म.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ), typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also known as the `` lap '' or grinding tool ) with an अक्खड़ ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम ऑक्साइड, जौहरियों 's रूज, optician 's रूज, एमरी, सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड, डायमंड, etc., in between them.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the अक्खड़ रोल्स परिचय between the two surfaces and removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic for the गोद, जिससे is `` charged '' with the abrasive.
The lap is then used to cut a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which holds it और permits it to स्कोर आरपार and cut the harder material.
Taken to a finer limit, this will produce a polished surface such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile, or a polishing cloth or polishing पिच upon कांच or steel.
Taken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of accurate interferometry और specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled hand polishing, lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers.
This is one twentieth of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source.
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें साथ अंतर्गत the right conditions.
( This is not the same as the wringing प्रभाव of Johansson blocks, although it is similar ).
The term `` अमेरिका 's टोली '' is a लोकप्रिय उपनाम in the United States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the National Football League.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, where the narrator opens with the following introduction : The term is recognized and often used by media आउटलेट, सहित ईएसपीएन, याहू !, एचबीओ खेल, और खेल illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( फ्रेंच : ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 Canadian television series, based on the television film of the same name.
In Canada, the series premiered in फ्रेंच on télétoon on February 28, 2011, in English on Teletoon on March 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27, 2011.
The show was निर्मित by भैस tv, creators of 6teen and Total Drama.
the दिखाएँ फ़ॉलो ethan मॉर्गन ( मैथ्यू नाईट ), who, in the television film, learns that his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the film, he learns he is able to have visions and उसके बेहतरीन dost बेनी वीयर ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures, with occasional help from fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron कैनेडी ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ), while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life.
A second season was confirmed to start production in September 2011 and it first premiered on Disney Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28, 2012 and premiered it on जनवरी 10, 2013
Dodge B Series यूटिलिटी circa 1950, driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट मोटर गाडी साथ an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to पिकअप, ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया and New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large पिकअप ट्रक हैं somewhat विरल in Europe, where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal विधि, alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, नियामक, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, और to convene और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely जिम्मेदार लिये dictating the विधान कार्यसूची of उसके पार्टी और the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष is अक्सर वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected संघीय अधिकारियों, the अन्य होने the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी लिये a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, लिये more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th और current president.
On नवम्बर 6, 2012, he थी re-elected and is scheduled to serve until January 20, 2017.
Bottled खनिज जल
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., well water, distilled water, Mineral water, or spring water ) packaged in प्लास्टिक or कांच जल बोतलों.
Bottled water may be कार्बोनेटेड or not.
आकार दायरा इससे small single serving bottles to large carboys for water coolers.
मैप of the major rivers, lakes, and reservoirs in India
Map showing rivers और बाढ़ prone areas in India
Rivers of India play an important role in the lives of the भारतीय लोगों.
The river systems provide irrigation, potable जल, सस्ती transportation, electricity, and the livelihoods for a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains why nearly सब the प्रमुख शहरों of India are located by the banks of rivers.
The rivers भी have an important role in Hindu mythology and are considered holy by all Hindus in the country.
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries मेक up the नदी प्रणाली of इण्डिया.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however, some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the east of the राज्य of himachal pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea.
Parts of Ladakh, northern parts of the Aravlli range and the arid parts of the थार मरुस्थल have अंतर्देशीय नाले.
dr.francis बुकानन surveyed the पाठ्यक्रम of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया along with their tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it.
The shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the centuries is very remarkable.
Many of the चैनल्स उल्लेखित in कि सर्वेक्षण have now become dead, dried or even extinct.
All major rivers of India originate from one of the तीन प्रमुख watersheds :
The Himalaya and the काराकोरम ranges
Vindhya और satpura सीमाएँ और Chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or Western ghats in पश्चिमी इण्डिया
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for commercial and financial relations among the संसार 's major industrial states in the mid-20th century.
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to govern monetary relations among स्वतंत्र nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging, 730 delegates from all 44 अलाइड राष्ट्र gathered at the माउंट वॉशिंगटन होटल in bretton वुड्स, नई Hampshire, United States, for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944, और signed the Agreement on its final day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and procedures to regulate the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the planners at Bretton Woods established the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ), which today is part of the World Bank Group.
ये संगठन became operational in 1945 after a sufficient number of countries had ratified the agreement.
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for each country to adopt a monetary policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the u.S. डालर और the क्षमता of the imf to सेतु अस्थाई imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold.
This brought the bretton वुड्स system to an end and saw the dollar become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the Nixon shock, created the हालात in which the United States dollar became a reserve currency used by many states.
At the वही समय, अनेक fixed currencies ( such as GBP, for example ), also became free floating.
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian कम्पनी कि डिजाइन और manufactures motorcycles.
headquartered in बोलोग्ना, इटली, डुकाटी is owned by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a person 's क्रेडिट फाइलें, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily based on क्रेडिट रपट सूचना typically sourced from credit bureaus.
Lenders, such as banks and credit card companies, use credit scores to evaluate the संभावित रिस्क posed by lending धन to उपभोक्ता and to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders use credit स्कोर to determine who qualifies for a loan, at what interest rate, and what credit limits.
Lenders also use credit स्कोर to determine जिससे customers are likely to bring in the most revenue.
The use of credit or पहचान स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing अभिगम or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system.
Credit scoring is not सीमित to banks.
Other organizations, such as mobile phone companies, बीमे कंपनियाँ, जमींदार, and government departments employ the same techniques.
Credit scoring also has a लॉट of ओवरलैप साथ आंकड़ा खनन, which uses many similar techniques.
These techniques combine thousands of factors but they are more or less similar or the वही.
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for example, to extract the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of light, the definition of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length, mass and time.
The International System of इकाई ( si ) defines सात units of measure as a basic set from which all other SI units are derived.
ये si आधार इकाई and their physical quantities are:
metre for length ( us अंग्रेज़ी : मीटर )
kilogram for mass ( नोट : नहीं the gram )
दूसरी for time
ampere for electric वर्तमान
केल्विन लिये temperature
candela लिये चमकदार intensity
mole for the राशि of substance.
The SI base quantities रूप a set of mutually independent dimensions as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in science and technology.
however, in a दिए realization of ये इकाई वे may well be interdependent, i.e. defined in terms of each other.
the names of si इकाई हैं लिखा in लोअरकेस वर्ण ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets this rule, as 'degree ' is the unit, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g. मीटर रै the प्रतीक m ), मगर कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई नामित after persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ).
Many other units, such as the litre ( US English : liter ), are formally not part of the SI, but are स्वीकृत लिये उपयोग with SI.
स्मारक canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as the स्मारक ) is a part of the National Park Service near the city of Grand Junction, Colorado.
spectacular canyons काटें गहन into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist rock formations, in some areas.
This is an area of desert land high on the Colorado Plateau, साथ पिनियन और juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife, including red-tailed hawks and सुनहरी ईगल्स, ravens, jays, desert bighorn sheep, and coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback riding, road bicycling, and दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a visitor center on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop.
There are magnificent views from trails और the Rim Rock Drive, which winds along the plateau.
Nearby are the Book Cliffs, and the largest flat-topped mountain in the संसार, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which runs the width of the park, और शामिल चट्टान formations ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता Monument, the Kissing Couple, and Coke Ovens.
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 वर्गाकार मील ), much of जिससे रै महरूम अनुशंसित to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to right : Utility Uniform, Blue Dress Uniform, Service Uniform, and Evening पोशाक uniforms
The Uniforms of the United States Marine corps serve to फर्क Marines from members of other services.
Among current uniforms in the United States हथियारबंद शक्तियां, the marines ' uniforms have been in service the longest.
The Marine Dress Blue uniform has, with few changes, महरूम worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century.
North American telephone area codes 419 और 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio.
The largest city served by these area codes is Toledo ( and its उपनगरों of हॉलैंड, maumee, northwood, ऑरेगॉन, ओटावा पहाड़ियाँ, perrysburg, Rossford, Sylvania, Swanton, Waterville, and Whitehouse ).
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada, Ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, Bowling Green, Bryan, Bucyrus, Celina, क्लाइड, crestline, defiance, Delphos, Edison, Erastus, Findlay, Fostoria, Fremont, Galion, Kenton, Lima, Mansfield, Mount Gilead, Napoleon, Norwalk, Oak Harbor, Port Clinton, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper Sandusky, Van Wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
Other areas served include the Lake erie Islands north of Port Clinton and west of Sandusky.
The main area code, 419, was created as one of the original area codes in October 1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल कोड 567 थी निर्मित on जनवरी 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the state 's fourth-largest नगर, 419 थी the पिछला of ओहियो 's असली चार क्षेत्रफल codes to have been split or overlaid.
मिकी लेरॉय gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an American country music singer and musician.
Although he प्रारंभ आउट गायन straight-up country and western material in the 1970s, he moved towards a more pop -friendly sound in the 1980s, bringing him further success on not just the country charts, but the pop charts as well.
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses, '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get Prettier at closing समय, '' और the रीमेक of the आत्मा hit `` स्टैंड by me ``.
he is भी the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl McVoy, Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation Administration, Gilley is a licensed pilot, who holds an यंत्र दरजा साथ वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges लिये multi-engine airplanes, as खूब as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so वे could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, were crashed into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें, क्रमशः, of the संसार व्यापार Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting फ़ायर causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of all other buildings in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United एयरलाइंस उड़ान 93, थी targeted at the संयुक्त States Capitol in Washington, D.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially denied any भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of इसराईल, the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism विधान और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन powers.
Having evaded कैप्चर लिये सालो, bin Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
the विनाश of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in may 2002, और the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired भीतर a year.
numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, सहित the नेशनल September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the One World Trade बीच is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written and directed by Andrew Stanton, released by Walt Disney Pictures, and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, साथ साथ a राजसी तंग नामित dory ( एलेन degeneres ), searches for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour.
Along the way, Marlin learns to लो risks और let Nemo take care of himself.
It is Pixar 's पहला फिल्मी to be released in cinemas in the northern hemisphere summer.
The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on September 14, 2012, और it थी released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A sequel, Finding Dory, is currently in development, नियत to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड विशेषता, और थी मनोनीत in three more categories including Best Original Screenplay.
It was the second highest-grossing film of 2003, कमाई a total of $ 921 million worldwide.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006, and was the highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of सब समय पहले पिक्चर्स 's अपना Toy Story 3 overtook it.
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film.
In 2008, the American Film संस्थान नामित it the tenth greatest animated film ever made during their Top 10.
The sixth season of America 's Best Dance Crew, also known as America 's Best Dance Crew : Season of the Superstars, premiered on April 7, 2011 and concluded on June 5, 2011.
Auditions were held in चार शहरों इससे जनवरी 21 through फ़रवरी 5 : Chicago, Houston, New York, and Los Angeles.
This season takes a अलग रूट from past seasons.
The crews must perform to the music of one specific कलाकार प्रत्येक सप्ताह, सहित रिहाना, लील वेन, and other popular stars.
This season also features special guest appearances by विभिन्न म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित जस्टिन बीबर, The Black Eyed Peas, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a पूर्व सदस्य of क्वेस्ट क्रू, the विजेता of the third season of America 's Best Dance Crew, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the season finale, I aM mE was declared the winner of ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, सोशल सुरक्षा refers to the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program.
The असली सोशल सुरक्षा Act ( 1935 ) and the current version of the Act, as amended, encompass several social welfare and social insurance programs.
Social सुरक्षा is primarily वित्तपोषित through dedicated payroll taxes called Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal हॉस्पिटल बीमे विश्वास निधि, or the संघीय अनुपूरक चिकित्सा बीमे विश्वास निधि जिससे comprise the Social Security Trust Fund.
Upward redistribution of income is responsible for about 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त सोशल सुरक्षा shortfall over the next 75 years.
According to economist Martin feldstein, the संयुक्त बिता लिये सब सोशल बीमे कार्यक्रम in 2003 constituted 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product.
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older आउट of poverty.
The Social Security प्रशासन is headquartered in Woodlawn, Maryland, just west of Baltimore.
the दारू by volume shown on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a मानक माप of कैसा much दारू ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
The ABV standard is used विश्वव्यापी.
In some countries, alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the फ्रेंच केमिस्ट जोसेफ लुई gay-lussac ).
Laurel Hollow is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in nassau काउंटी, नई यॉर्क in the United States.
The population was 1,952 at the 2010 census.
Charles John Huffam Dickens ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 जून 1870 ) थी an अंग्रेज़ी लेखक और सोशल critic.
He created some of the world 's most memorable fictional characters and is generally regarded as the महानतम उपन्यासकार of the विक्टोरियन काल.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented कीर्ति, और by the बीसवीं सदी his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars.
His novels and short stories continue to be widely popular.
Born in Portsmouth, England, डिकेंस बाएँ स्कूल to work in a factory after his father was thrown into debtors ' prison.
Although he had little formal education, his early impoverishment drove उसे to सफल.
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, 5 novellas and hundreds of छोटी कहानियां और non-fiction आलेख, lectured और performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights, education, and other social reforms.
Dickens sprang to fame with the 1836 सीरियल प्रकाशन of the Pickwick Papers.
Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity, famous for his ह्यूमर, व्यंग्य, और keen अवलोकन of character and society.
His novels, most published in monthly or weekly instalments, pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction, जिससे became the प्रबल विक्टोरियन विधि लिये अनोखा publication.
The instalment स्वरूप अनुमत डिकेंस to evaluate his audience 's reaction, and he often modified his plot and character development based on such feedback.
For example, when his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss Mowcher in David कॉपरफील्ड लगा to प्रतिबिंबित उसके disabilities, Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments.
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous बाड़ ikey सुलेमान ; His caricature of Leigh Hunt in the figure of Mr Skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read episodes.
In the same novel, both Lawrence Boythorne and मूनी the beadle हैं drawn इससे रियल जीवन – boythorne from Walter Savage Landor and Mooney from 'Looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
His भूखंड were carefully constructed, and Dickens often wove in elements from topical events into his narratives.
Masses of the अनपढ़ ग़रीब chipped in ha'pennies to have each new monthly episode read to them, opening up and inspiring a new class of readers.
Dickens was regarded as the साहित्यिक colossus of his age.
His 1843 novella, A Christmas Carol, is one of the most influential works ever written, और it remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre.
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo टालस्टाय to G. K. चेस्टरटन और जार्ज ऑरवेल —for its realism, comedy, prose style, unique characterisations, and social criticism.
On the other हाथ ऑस्कर वाइल्ड, हेनरी जेम्स और वर्जिनिया woolf complained of a lack of psychological depth, loose writing, and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
Martin Luther King and other civil rights leaders in front of the प्रतिमा of अब्राहम lincoln, August 28, 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of worldwide political movements लिये समता पहले the विधि कि peaked in the 1960s.
In many situations it took the form of campaigns of civil resistance aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In some situations it was accompanied, or followed, by civil अशांति और हथियारबंद विद्रोह.
The process was long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these movements did not fully achieve their goals although, the efforts of these movements did lead to सुधार in the विधिक अधिकारों of previously दलित समूह of people.
The main aim of the civil rights movement included, and include, ensuring that the rights of all people are बराबर सुरक्षित by the विधि, सहित the rights of minorities.
Civil rights movements ranging from the वैश्विक lgbt अधिकारों गति to the global Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue.
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup, the world चैंपियनशिप लिये मेन 's नेशनल संघ फ़ुटबॉल टीमों.
It took प्लेस in दक्षिण Africa from 11 June to 11 July 2010.
The bidding process for होस्टिंग the टूर्नामेंट फाइनल थी खोलें तभी to अफ़्रीकी राष्ट्र ; in 2004, the international football federation, FIFA, selected South Africa over Egypt and Morocco to become the first African nation to host the finals.
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the देश, साथ the फाइनल निभाई at the सॉकर City stadium in South Africa 's largest city, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a विश्वव्यापी योग्यता tournament that began in August 2007.
In the first round of the tournament finals, the टीमों competed in round-robin groups of four teams for points, with the top two teams in each group proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage, where three rounds of play decided जिससे टीमों होता participate in the फाइनल.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, defeated third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 बाद अतिरिक्त समय, साथ आन्द्रेस iniesta 's लक्ष्य in the 116th मिनट giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार title, becoming the eighth nation to win the tournament, and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent.
Host nation South Africa, 2006 world champions Italy and 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस यहूद सब eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
It was the first समय कि the होस्ट यहूद eliminated in the first round.
New Zealand with their तीन draws यहूद the तभी अपराजित टोली in the tournament, but were also eliminated in the first round.
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast सैंडविच in various sizes and configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast सैंडविच ; it थी invented by the late McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon was an English musician जो gained विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as एक of the संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स, लिये his subsequent solo career, and for his political activism and pacifism.
He was shot by Mark David Chapman at the entrance of the building जहाँ he जिया, the डकोटा, in New York City on 8 December 1980.
लेनन था बस लौटे from Record Plant Studio with his wife, Yoko Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where it was stated that nobody could have lived for more than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining ऐसे चोटों.
Shortly after local news stations reported Lennon 's मौत, crowds gathered at रूज़वेल्ट हॉस्पिटल and in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in Hartsdale, New York ; the ashes were given to Ono, who chose not to hold a funeral for him.
The first report of Lennon 's death to a U.S. नेशनल दर्शक थी घोषित by Howard Cosell, on ABC 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United States बंदरगाहों और the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
the नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa Combined Statistical Area, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is named बाद orléans, a नगर स्तिथ on the loire नदी in Centre, France, and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine, music ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), and its annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
the नगर is प्रायः referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The city and Orleans मोहल्ला ( ) हैं.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of st. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of जिससे is शामिल in the city limits, lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east.
The United States अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1968 थी the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जीती the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, फटा by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had वर्चस्व अध्यक्षीय politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन, the चुनाव देखी the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former Alabama राज्यपाल जार्ज वालेस, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's अभियान opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the South to end school segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which नई यॉर्क था the सबसे votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the vice presidential प्रत्याशी 's home state.
Karak ( ; भी ज्ञात as garak, garrak, और gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab Rural District, in the Central District of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, its जनसांख्यिकी थी 294, in 65 परिवारों.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – अप्रैल 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, best known as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as part of the Seattle music scene, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, थी प्रायः असहज और कुंठित, believing उसके संदेश and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of उसके जीवन, कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, बीमारी and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and पब्लिक चित्र, और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination and debate.
Since their debut, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has बेची over 25 लाख एल्बम in the u.S., और over 50 million worldwide.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman सगाई साथ the निर्माण and maintenance of machinery.
More generally in the English speaking world, early millwrights यहूद विशेषज्ञ बढ़ई who erected machines used in agriculture, food processing and processing lumber and paper.
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution, their skills were pressed into service भवन the earliest powered textile mills.
आधुनिक millwrights कार्य साथ स्टील और अन्य सामग्री in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades in order to successfully fabricate industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts.
The modern millwright must also be able to read blueprints और अन्य schematics to सहायता उसे in the construction of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the US, हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors.
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely आधारित on the फिलिप K. Dick short story, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film was written and निर्देशित by जार्ज nolfi and stars Matt Damon and Emily Blunt.
the डाल भी शामिल एंथोनी Mackie, John Slattery, Michael Kelly, and Terence Stamp.
The score was composed by Thomas Newman, with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright '' for the opening sequence ; `` Are तुम तैयार ? '' लिये the closing क्रेडिट ).
Sodium azide is the अकार्बनिक यौगिक साथ the formula NaN3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming घटक in अनेक car airbag systems.
It is प्रयुक्त लिये the तैयारी of other azide compounds.
It is an ionic पदार्थ, is अत्यधिक घुलनशील in water, and is very acutely toxic.
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the primary arc.
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the bottom marks the centre of the rainbow वृत्त ( antisolar पाइंट ).
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of light in water droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere, resulting in a वर्णक्रम of लाइट appearing in the sky.
It takes the रूप of a multicoloured arc.
Rainbows caused by धूप सदा appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun.
In a `` primary rainbow '', the arc shows red on the बाहरी भाग और बैंगनी on the inner side.
This rainbow is caused by light being refracted while entering a droplet of जल, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, and has the order of its colours reversed, रेड facing toward the अन्य एक, in both rainbows.
This दूसरी रेनबो is caused by light reflecting twice inside water droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories, is a centre-right राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम कि espouses the तत्त्वज्ञान of conservatism and British unionism.
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom, being the largest सिंगल पार्टी in the हाउस of कॉमन्स साथ 303 mps, the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors, and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs.
It governs in गठबन्धन साथ the उदार डेमोक्रेट, with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister.
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834, and was one of two dominant parties in the 19th सदी, साथ साथ the Liberal Party.
It changed its name to the Conservative and Unionist Party in 1912 after merging with the उदार यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी, हालांकि कि नाम is rarely प्रयुक्त और it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party.
In the 1920s, the उदार vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals.
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57 years of the 20th century, including विंस्टन Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the Conservatives become the सबसे eurosceptic of the तीन प्रमुख parties.
The party was लौटे to सरकारी in गठबन्धन, having विफल to win a majority, in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and Reformists ( ECR ) संसदीय समूह, जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest party in the Scottish Parliament and second-largest in the वेल्श सभा.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as part of the ulster conservatives और unionists arrangement, with the UUP currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final, and perhaps most recognizable, line-up comprised बेयोंस नॉलेस, केली rowland and Michelle Williams.
Formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, Destiny 's Child सदस्यों began उनके musical endeavors as लड़की 's टीमे comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After सालो of सीमित कामयाबी, वे were signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the release of their best-selling दूसरी album, The Writing 's on the Wall, which contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and commercial success, the group was plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil, as roberson और luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
Both roberson और luckett यहूद soon replaced with Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however, in 2000, Franklin was dismissed, leaving them as a trio.
Their third album, Survivor, which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience, contains the worldwide हिट्स `` स्वतंत्र महिलाओं ``, `` उत्तरजीवी `` और `` Bootylicious ``.
In 2002, they announced a hiatus and re-united two years later for the release of their fourth स्टुडियो एल्बम, नियति fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 लाख records worldwide to date.
Billboard magazine ranks the समूह as एक of the महानतम musical trios of all time, the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s, and placed the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated dekalb काउंटी, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
it works to protect पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा by providing सूचना to बढ़ाएँ health decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations.
The सीडीसी फ़ोकस नेशनल ध्यान on विकासशील और applying बीमारी रोकथाम और कंट्रोल ( विशेषकर infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ), environmental health, occupational safety and health, health promotion, injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
The CDC is the United States ' national public health संस्थान और is a founding सदस्य of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of नेशनल Public Health Institutes.
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time, location, and magnitude of a future earthquake within stated हद '', और विशेषकर of `` the अगला दमदार earthquake to occur in a region. ''
This can be distinguished from भूकंप forecasting, जिससे is the probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard, including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes, in a given area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further विशिष्ट इससे real-time भूकंप चेतावनी प्रणालियों, which, upon detection of a severe earthquake, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an भूकंप भविष्यवाणी जरूर be precise पर्याप्त to वारंट the लागत of increased एहतियात, including disruption of ordinary activities and commerce, and timely enough that preparation can be made.
Predictions must also be reliable, as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only economically costly, but seriously undermine विश्वास in, और thereby the प्रभावकारिता of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a परिमाण of 4.0 or वृहद, नगण्य कामयाबी in भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such trivial `` कामयाब पूर्वानुमान '' are not useful.
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports that they were predicted, or at least anticipated, but no claim of a successful भविष्यवाणी of a प्रमुख भूकंप रै बच बंद पूछताछ.
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that some method of predicting earthquakes might be found, but by the 1990s continuing विफलता led अनेक वैज्ञानिकों to सवाल whether it थी even possible.
While many scientists still hold that, given enough resources, भविष्यवाणी might be संभावित, many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an American actress, सिंगर, संगीतकार, songwriter और रिकार्ड producer.
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey Pickett in the Disney Channel Original Series the Suite Life on Deck.
In 2008, The Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's शीर्ष श्रेणी among बच्चे 6-11 और the No. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
Ryan started acting in professional theatres at the age of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : let 's go to the फायरहाउस और तब थी खोजा in a देशभर search by Disney.
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 विशेषता फिल्मी the longshots as Edith.
In 2009, she guest स्ट्रक्चर in an एपीसोड of wizards of waverly प्लेस in wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana as Bailey Pickett along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, she starred in the film 16 Wishes, which थी the सबसे देखी केबल कार्यक्रम on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie received high viewership in the वयस्कों जनसांख्यिकी ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, Ryan starred in the independent theatrical film, कया if..., जिससे premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the new Disney Channel Original movie, Radio Rebel, where वो portrays the भूमिका of tara एडम्स, a शर्मीले 17-year-old लड़की जो adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
Released फ़रवरी 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular भूमिका in the डिज़्नी Channel Original Series, Jessie.
Stührling Tourbillon गति ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss घड़ीसाज़ abraham-louis breguet इससे an पहले विचार by the अंग्रेज़ी chronometer मेकर जॉन अर्नाल्ड, a tourbillon aims to काउंटर the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a rotating cage, to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons हैं स्टिल शामिल in कुछ महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is usually exposed on the देखें 's face to show it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously ज्ञात as microsoft installer ) is a तन्त्र घटक प्रयुक्त लिये the installation, maintenance, and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, and often the files themselves, are packaged in installation packages, loosely रिलेशनल databases संरचित as com संरचित storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '', from their default file extension.
Windows Installer contains significant परिवर्तन इससे इसके पूर्ववर्ती, Setup API.
New features include a GUI framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation sequence.
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks such as older versions of InstallShield and NSIS.
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis for installation frameworks, so that they synchronize correctly साथ अन्य installers और रखना the आतंरिक डेटाबेस of संस्थापित products consistent.
Important features such as rollback and versioning निर्भर on a सतत internal database for reliable operation.
Furthermore, Windows Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by performing तन्त्र संस्थापना by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as energy drinks, sold by phusion प्रोजेक्ट of Chicago, Illinois.
Phusion operates as Drink चार brewing Company.
Four Loko, the company 's most popular beverage, debuted in the संयुक्त राज्य market in 2005.
It is now sold in 48 states, और in कनाडा, The Bahamas, Bolivia, Honduras, and Europe.
The name `` Four '' is derived from the असली उर्जा पेय 's चार प्रमुख संघटक : alcohol, caffeine, taurine, and guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of legal, नैतिक, और स्वास्थ्य चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the कम्पनी allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine.
After the beverage was banned in several states, a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed कैफीन, taurine, और guarana as संघटक, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
The neck of a guitar showing the nut ( in the पृष्ठभूमि, coloured श्वेत ) और first four metal frets.
A fret is a raised element on the neck of a stringed यंत्र.
Frets usually extend across the पूरा चौडाई of the neck.
On most modern पश्चिमी fretted यंत्र, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On some historical instruments and non-European instruments, frets are made of टुकड़े of स्ट्रिंग tied around the neck.
Frets divide the neck into फिक्स्ड खण्ड at intervals related to a musical framework.
On instruments such as guitars, each fret represents one semitone in the मानक पश्चिमी प्रणाली where one octave is divided into twelve semitones.
fret is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया, meaning simply `` to press down the string behind a fret. ''
Fretting प्रायः refers to the frets and/or their system of placement.
There was consumption of alcohol both during and बाद निषेध.
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production, distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages in the United राज्य और थी widely समर्थित by the अमरीकी पब्लिक जब it गई into effect in 1920.
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most personal and social problems and prohibition was seen as the समाधान to the स्वदेश 's गरीबी, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the famous इंजीलवादी बिली संडे कहा कि `` The slums will soon be only a memory.
We will फेरे हमारी जेलों into factories and our jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( Compare christianity and alcohol. )
Since alcohol was to be बैन and since it was seen as the cause of most, if not all, crime, some communities sold their jails.
The nation was highly optimistic और the अग्रणी prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted that `` There is as much chance of repealing the Eighteenth Amendment as there is for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ), is the आधारभूत ईकाई of लंबाई in the International System of Units ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the अलहदा from the Earth 's equator to the North Pole ( at sea level ), its definition has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it has been defined as `` the length of the पाथ travelled by लाइट in वैक्यूम during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
geologists explaining the महत्व of volcanic ash layers to students on field in Iceland
a भूवैज्ञानिक is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth as well as the processes and history that has shaped it.
Geologists प्रायः engage in studying geology.
Geologists, studying more of an लागू विज्ञान than a सैद्धांतिक one, must approach Geology using physics, chemistry and biology as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in other fields, are generally more exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; although कुछ geologists prefer to perform सबसे of their studies in the lab.
Geologists are सगाई in खोजी लिये खनन कंपनियाँ in search of metals, oils, and other Earth resources.
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and disasters warning and mitigation, studying भूकंप, volcanic कार्यकलाप, tsunamis, मौसम storms, and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events.
Currently, geologists are also engaged in the discussion of climate change, as वे पढ़ाई the इतिहास और प्रमाण लिये this Earth process.
नीचे is a व्यापक ड्रिल and tap size chart for all drills, imperial and metric, and taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern वैक्यूम tubes, mostly miniature style
In electronics, a vacuum tube, इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्यूब ( in उत्तर अमेरिका ), तापायनिक वाल्व, tube, or valve is a device controlling electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The संग्राहक is प्रायः पतला पारदर्शी glass in a roughly cylindrical shape.
The simplest vacuum ट्यूब, the डायोड, is essentially an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the बल्ब 's फिलामेंट is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' off its surface and into the vacuum inside the bulb.
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is made more positive than the hot filament, a सीधा वर्तमान बहती through the वैक्यूम to the एलेक्ट्रोड ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only flows in one direction, it makes it संभावित to बदलें an प्रत्यावर्ती current applied to the filament to direct current.
The introduction of a third electrode, a ग्रिड between the फिलामेंट और the थाली, yields another function.
A voltage applied to the grid controls the वर्तमान बहती इससे the फिलामेंट to the plate.
Thus, it allows the device to be used as an electronic amplifier.
Vacuum tubes हैं यूँ प्रयुक्त लिये rectification, amplification, switching, or similar processing or creation of electrical signals.
The vast majority of modern day tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक साथ a वैक्यूम अंदर, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in the खण्ड परिचय gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology, which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio प्रसारण, टेलीविज़न, रडार, ध्वनि reinforcement, ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग और जनन, विशाल टेलीफोन संजाल, analog and digital computers, and industrial process control.
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies ऐसे as the चिंगारी गैप ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical computers, it was the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical.
In सबसे अनुप्रयोग, solid-state devices such as transistors and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes.
Solid-state devices last longer and are smaller, more efficient, अधिक विश्वसनीय, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant अनावश्यक ऊष्मा, और can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed, are impractical, or where a tube has superior performance, as साथ कुछ डिवाइस in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters.
Tubes are स्टिल उत्पादित for such applications.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the electromagnetic pulse produced by nuclear explosions और geomagnetic तूफ़ान उत्पादित by दानव solar flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured मिठाई, currently produced and marketed by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a division of Mars, Inc.
They have hard sugar शेल जिससे carry the letter S.
The inside is mainly शुगर, मकई सिरप, और hydrogenated ताड़ कर्नेल oil along with fruit juice, citric acid, and natural and artificial flavours.
The confectionery has been sold in a variety of flavour संग्रहण, such as Tropical and Wild Berry.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 नवम्बर 1874 – 24 जनवरी 1965 ) थी a अंग्रेजों राजनेता who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as one of the महानतम wartime नेताओ of the 20th सदी, चर्चिल was also an officer in the British Army, a historian, a writer, and an artist.
He is the तभी अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री in इतिहास to have received the Nobel Prize in Literature, and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an वैभवशाली family as the grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough.
His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was a charismatic politician जो परोसा as चांसलर of the exchequer ; उसके माँ, Jennie Jerome, was an American socialite.
As a young फौज अधिकारी, he देखी action in British India, The Sudan, and the Second Boer War.
He gained fame as a युद्ध correspondent और wrote books about his campaigns.
At the forefront of politics for पचास सालो, he आयोजित अनेक political and cabinet positions.
Before the First World War, he served as President of the Board of Trade, Home Secretary, and First रब of the admiralty as भाग of the asquith Liberal government.
During the war, he continued as First Lord of the Admiralty जबतक the विनाशकारी gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government.
He then briefly resumed active army service on the पश्चिमी सामने as कमांडर of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to सरकारी as मंत्री of Munitions, Secretary of State for War, and Secretary of State for Air.
After the War, Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary दबाव on the UK economy.
भी विवादास्पद was his opposition to increased home rule for India and his resistance to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII.
Out of दफ्तर और नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in warning about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the Second World War, he थी again नियुक्त पहला रब of the Admiralty.
following the इस्तीफा of Neville Chamberlain on 10 May 1940, Churchill became Prime Minister.
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance, especially during the difficult जल्दी दिनों of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood अलोन among यूरोपीय देशों in इसके active opposition to Adolf Hitler.
Churchill was particularly noted लिये उसके भाषणों और radio broadcasts, which helped inspire the British people.
He led Britain as Prime मंत्री जबतक विजय over Nazi Germany had been secured.
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 election, he became Leader of the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government.
After winning the 1951 election, he again became प्रधान Minister, before retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, Elizabeth II granted him the honour of a राज्य अंत्येष्टि, which saw one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history.
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as होने among the सबसे influential लोगों in अंग्रेजों इतिहास.
Ruby Gloom is an animated टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ आधारित on an apparel franchise.
The show is produced by Nelvana and began airing on अक्तूबर 13, 2006 in Canada on the network YTV.
It stars the आवाज़ें of Sarah Gadon, Emily Hampshire, and Peter Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the घाट मोटर Company since 1998.
Ford began sales of the फ़ोकस to यूरोपीय in July 1998 and in North America during 1999 for the 2000 model year.
In Europe, South America, North America and South Africa, the Focus replaced the विभिन्न संस्करण of the घाट अनुरक्षण sold in those markets.
In Asia and Australasia, it replaced the घाट लेज़र.
As of the पहला हाफ of 2012, the फ़ोकस surpassed the Toyota Corolla to become the world 's best selling automobile nameplate.
The Focus has been considered one of the 50 greatest गाड़ियाँ of the पास्ट पचास सालो by British magazine CAR.
An agar थाली -- an example of a bacterial growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the orange lines and dots हैं formed by बैक्टीरियल colonies.
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are different types of media for growing अलग प्रकार of कोशिकाएं.
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell culture, which use विशिष्ट कोशिका प्रकार निकला इससे पौधे or animals, and microbiological culture, which are used for growing microorganisms, such as bacteria or yeast.
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ; specialized मीडिया हैं sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth.
Some organisms, termed fastidious organisms, require specialized environments due to जटिल nutritional आवश्यकताएँ.
Viruses, for example, are obligate intracellular परजीवी और आवश्यकता a विकास medium containing living cells.
A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, फिल्मी निर्देशकों, संगीतकारों, मॉडल, निर्माता, पेशेवर एथलीट, लेखक and other people in various entertainment businesses.
An agent also defends, supports और promotes the interest of his/her clients.
Agents can नहीं उपज their own shows due to conflict of interest.
A talent agent must be परिचित साथ उनके clients.
An agent रै to जान कया दयालु of कार्य the client can and can not do in order to match them with various jobs.
Having an agent is not required, लकिन करता सहायता the कलाकार in getting jobs.
In many cases casting directors, or other businesses, go to talent agencies to ढूँढें कलाकारों वे हैं looking for.
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's आय ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes will be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of agents that are स्थापित by कलाकार 's संघ and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates.
There are also पेशेवर organizations that license talent agencies.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a monumental shift in how studios would produce films and thus reducing the लागत of विशेष और expensive actors.
Actors and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned by एक major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios.
क्युकी of इस, एजेंटों were now seen as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became third parties कि negotiated between studios and clients, this making their services imperative between each party.
Since talent एजेंसियों हैं working साथ lucrative अनुबंध, सब हुनर एजेंसियों जरूर be licensed अंतर्गत खास भाग of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया Labor Code, which calls an agent a `` person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists. ''
Mars has two known moons, Phobos and Deimos, which are thought to be captured क्षुद्रग्रह.
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) जो, in यूनानी mythology, accompanied their father Ares, god of war, into battle.
Ares was known as Mars to the romans.
It is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 मीटर और a धूल रिंग between Phobos and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered.
In law enforcement parlance, the term हत्या किताब refers to the मामला संचिका of a murder investigation.
Typically, murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches, autopsy and forensic रिपोर्ट्स, transcripts of जांचकर्ताओं ' टीप and witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder छानबीन, from the time the murder is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully, and it is unusual for civilians to be given unfettered access to ये kinds of records, especially for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 सेंटीमीटर ( परिचय 3/8 इंच to 1 इंच ).
वे हैं generally used in fruit salad.
A KSA, or Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities, is a series of narrative कथन कि हैं जरूरी जब applying to संयुक्त राज्य Federal government job openings.
KSAs are used to determine, along with resumes, who the best आवेदकों हैं जब अनेक उम्मीदवार qualify for a job.
The knowledge, skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary for the successful प्रदर्शन of a स्थिति are contained on each job vacancy announcement.
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to stop requiring job applicants to भरण आउट the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's career and educational background that presumably qualify एक to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, skills, and abilities ( ksa ) is a संक्षिप्त निबन्ध परिचय एक 's talent and expertise and related experiences ( work, education, volunteer ) and accomplishments.
A series of KSA statements are usually required when applying for most संघीय सरकारी और कुछ राज्य और नगर government jobs.
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in terms of likely क्षमता to perform the कर्तव्य of the जॉब.
Most सरकारी भर्ती officials dekh लिये a छोटी, crisp and clear KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work.
KSA कथन are also known as Evaluation Factors.
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '', `` Quality Ranking Factors '', `` Knowledge, Abilities, कौशल और अन्य विशेषताएँ '', or `` Job Elements ''.
The name can be just a name but often it प्रभाव सामग्री and length of the essay.
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the समय the प्रत्येक ksa फ़ैक्टर should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
The below definitions हैं पारिभाषित by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management :
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes required to perform a जॉब और हैं generally demonstrated through qualifying service, education, or training.
Knowledge - Is a body of information applied सीधे to the performance of a function.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a सीखे psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable बर्ताव or a बर्ताव कि परिणाम in an observable product.
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a स्केल of इससे एक to 100.
Job applicants must स्कोर ऊपर 70 to be माना for the position.
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing examples from previous नियुक्ति or प्रशिक्षण कि clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications.
When applying to federal government positions, a Federal Resume is usually जरूरी in जोड to KSA statements.
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain cereal germ, endosperm, and bran, in contrast to परिष्कृत grains, which retain only the endosperm.
Common whole grains include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley - Hulled and Dehulled ( नहीं पर्ल )
मक्का
भूरा rice
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted दाने
buckwheat
Common whole अनाज उत्पाद include:
पूरे गेहूं flour
पूरे wheat Bread
पूरे wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat groats
Triticale आटा
पॉपकॉर्न
teff आटा
Common refined non-whole अनाज उत्पाद include:
Love सदा is the डेब्यू एल्बम of अमरीकी r & B duo K-Ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at various studios in नई यॉर्क और the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997.
It was produced by JoJo and several others, including DeVante Swing, जेम्स mtume, और जेफ़ Redd.
The duo were originally a भाग of jodeci before this album.
The album peaked at sixth on the US Billboard 200 और भी appeared on international charts.
The single `` All My Life `` charted number one in multiple देशों, और सब चार of the एल्बम 's singles peaked ऊपर the शीर्ष 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love Always was received favorably by आलोचकों, जो praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production.
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( riaa ) और सुनहरा by म्यूज़िक कनाडा और ifpi स्वीडन.
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 लाख नक़ल in the संयुक्त States.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the interest rate on the note periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the लागत to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's मानक परिवर्तनीय rate/ base rate.
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, but where the lender offers no specific link to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट can be बदला at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States, whilst in the United States, `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common, and implies a बंधक regulated by the संघीय सरकारी, with caps on charges.
In many countries, समायोज्य रेट mortgages हैं the norm, और in ऐसे स्थान, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ), and the लंदन interbank offered रेट ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders use their own लागत of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका, rather than using other indices.
This is done to ensure a steady margin for the lender, जिनकी अपना लागत of funding होगा प्रायः be related to the index.
Consequently, payments made by the borrower may change over time with the changing ब्याज रेट ( alternatively, the पद of the ऋण may change ).
This is distinct from the graduated payment mortgage, जिससे offers बदलना भुगतान amounts but a fixed interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage, the फिक्स्ड रेट बंधक, the negative amortization mortgage, and the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates transfer भाग of the ब्याज रेट रिस्क from the lender to the borrower.
They can be used जहाँ मनमौजी ब्याज दरों make fixed rate loans difficult to obtain.
the borrower लाभ if the interest rate falls but loses if the interest rate increases.
The borrower लाभ इससे घटाया मार्जिन to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages.
the हत्या of रॉबर्ट फ्रांसिस `` bobby '' कैनेडी, a संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर और brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy, took place shortly after midnight on June 5, 1968, in Los Angeles, California, during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election, 1968.
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States, कैनेडी थी शॉट as he walked through the रसोईघर of the दूत Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन अप्रवासी, थी convicted of कैनेडी 's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime.
Sirhan 's वकील have released statements claiming evidence that he was framed.
The shooting was अंकित on ऑडियो टेप by a freelance समाचारपत्र रिपोर्टर, and the aftermath was captured on film.
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's गिरजाघर in नई यॉर्क for two days before a funeral mass was held on June 8.
His body was interred near his bhai जॉन at आर्लिंगटन National Cemetery.
His death prompted the सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार by the United States Secret Service.
Hubert Humphrey went on to जीत the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन for the presidency, but ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon.
As with his brother Jack 's death, Bobby 's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have शाखित a किस्में of conspiracy theories.
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one of तभी दो बैठे United States Senators to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ).
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the काल in the इतिहास of मुख्यधारा American comic books generally considered to last from the mid-1980s until present day.
In this period, comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex, creators became better-known and क्रियाशील in बदलना the उद्योग, स्वतंत्र comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An alternate name for this period is the Dark Age of Comic Books, due to the लोकप्रियता और कलाकारी influence of grim शीर्षक, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry Met Sally... is a 1989 American रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा by नोरा ephron और निर्देशित by Rob Reiner.
It stars Billy Crystal as Harry और मेग रयान as Sally.
The story follows the title characters from the time they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve years or so of मौका मुठभेड़ों in New York City.
The फिल्मी उठाता the सवाल `` can मेन and women ever just be friends ? '' and advances many ideas about relationships that became household concepts, such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the film came from Reiner 's वापसी to सिंगल जीवन बाद a divorce.
An interview ephron conducted with Reiner provided the basis for Harry.
Sally थी आधारित on Ephron and some of her friends.
Crystal आए on board and made his own contributions to the screenplay, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the फिल्मी साथ much of the संवाद आधारित on the real-life friendship between Reiner and Crystal.
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry connick, jr., साथ a बिग band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick won his पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Jazz Male Vocal Performance.
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique, जिससे शामिल खोलने it in a few select cities, letting positive word of mouth generate interest, and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
When Harry Met Sally... grossed a total of US $ 92.8 million in North अमेरिका.
Ephron प्राप्त a British Academy Film Award, an Oscar nomination, and a Writers Guild of America Award nomination for her screenplay.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the top comedy films in American cinema and number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 funniest फिल्मों ''.
In early 2004, the film was adapted लिये the स्टेज in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of boxed पास्ता bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of each box are combined with browned ground beef, water and milk to बनाएँ a पूरा dish.
The product लकीर भी सुविधाएँ products with other starches such as rice or potatoes instead of pasta.
It is made by सामान्य Mills.
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the starch item and the सॉस पैकेट्स, कुछ किस्में of the उत्पाद शामिल मैदान बीफ.
These include a frozen food line, which सुविधाएँ कुछ of the ब्रांड 's क्लासिक varieties in a complete meal kit form, with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag.
There is also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper containing dehydrated मांस, नूडल्स और seasonings in a छोटी pouch, requiring only water to be added.
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '', an anthropomorphic animated, four fingered left-hand glove, जिससे appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as seen with the Hubble Space दूरदर्शी.
It is the only dwarf ग्रह in the asteroid belt.
Pluto in approximate true colour based on हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी ऐल्बीडो data
Haumea साथ इसके moons, hiʻiaka and Namaka ( artist 's conception )
Makemake ( कलाकार 's conception )
Eris and its moon Dysnomia as seen with the हबल स्पेस Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object that is neither a planet nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a बौना ग्रह as a celestial देह in सीधा कक्षा of the सूर्य कि is massive enough for its shape to be controlled by gravitation, but that unlike a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects.
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of लाशें orbiting the सूर्य, brought परिचय by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size, and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object, Eris.
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit are पारिभाषित as ग्रह, जबकि those कि हैं नहीं massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies.
बौना ग्रह come in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by माइक भूरा, जो खोजा और अन्य नई बौना ग्रह, लकिन रै महरूम rejected by Alan Stern, who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf planets in the सौर प्रणाली :, प्लूटो,,, and.
However, only two of ये लाशें, ceres and Pluto, have been observed in enough detail to demonstrate that they fit the definition.
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf planet because it is अधिक विशाल than Pluto.
The IAU subsequently decided कि बेनाम trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The only two such objects known at the समय, माकेमाके और हउमेया, गई through this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected that another सौ or so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ in the Solar System are dwarf planets.
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored, and that the number may exceed 10,000 जब वस्तुएँ बिखरे बाहर the kuiper बेल्ट are considered.
Individual astronomers recognize several of these, and in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects, ranging इससे `` nearly निश्चित '' to `` संभावित '' बौना planets. '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the five accepted by the IAU plus,,, and – as `` वस्तुतः निश्चित '', साथ another दो दर्जन highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems with the विशेषताएँ of बौना ग्रह has not been addressed.
A debit card ( भी ज्ञात as a बैंको कार्ड or जाँच कार्ड ) is a plastic payment card that provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution.
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is made, while most relay a message to the cardholder 's बैंको to withdraw निधि इससे a payee 's designated bank account.
The card, where accepted, can be प्रयुक्त बजाय of cash when making purchases.
In some cases, the primary account क्रमांक is आबंटित exclusively लिये उपयोग on the अंतरजाल and there is no physical card.
In many countries, the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और, in कुछ उदाहरण, cash transactions.
The development of debit cards, नापसंद क्रेडिट ताश and charge cards, has generally been country specific resulting in a number of different systems around the world, which were often incompatible.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have allowed debit ताश जारी in एक देश to be प्रयुक्त in अन्य countries and allowed their use for internet and phone purchases.
Unlike credit and charge cards, payments using a debit card are immediately transferred from the cardholder 's designated bank account, instead of उन्हें paying the money back at a later date.
Debit cards usually भी allow लिये तत्काल वापसी of नकदी, acting as the ATM card for withdrawing cash.
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to customers, where a customer can withdraw cash along with उनके खरीदें.
Francois Henri `` जोकर '' lalanne ( सितंबर 26, 1914 - जनवरी 23, 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी फ़िटनेस, exercise, and nutritional expert and motivational speaker who is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero. ''
He described himself as being a `` sugarholic '' and a `` junk food junkie '' जबतक he थी 15.
He also had behavioral समस्याएं, लकिन `` turned उसके जीवन around '' after listening to a public lecture by Paul Bragg, a well-known nutrition speaker.
During his career, he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the health of its population, writing that `` शारीरिक संस्कृति और पोषण — is the मोक्ष of America. ''
Decades before health and fitness began being प्रचारित by हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन फोंडा and Richard Simmons, LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet.
He प्रकाशित numerous किताबे on fitness and hosted a fitness television show between 1953 and 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the nation 's first fitness gyms in Oakland, California, which became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s टेलीविज़न कसरत programs was aimed toward women, whom he also encouraged to join his health clubs.
He invented a number of कसरत मशीने, सहित leg-extension and pulley devices.
Besides producing his own श्रेणी of वीडियो, he coached the बुजुर्ग और निष्क्रिय not to forgo exercise, believing it would enable them to enhance their strength.
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as खूब as लिये उसके prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger एकबार stated, `` कि जोकर lalanne 's an animal !, '' after LaLanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by inspiring `` billions all over the world to live healthier lives, '' and, as राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, था पहले placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited lalanne as उसके प्रेरणा to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist.
He was inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of Fame and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the देशों उपयोग प्रणाली similar to Armies.
However, the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth countries, or those formerly अंतर्गत a अंग्रेजों influence, उपयोग a अलग नियत of बाँधने loosely आधारित on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant, Commander, Captain and Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight, Wing, Group and Air, respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ).
पेनेलोपे क्रूज़ sánchez ( ; born April 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, she made her acting debut at 16 on television and her feature film debut the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to नाजुक acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ), The Girl of अपना सपनो ( 2000 ) और Woman on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved मान्यता for her lead roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow.
She has since निर्मित a कामयाब करियर, appearing in films from a wide range of genres, including the comedy Waking Up in Reno ( 2002 ), the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ), the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ), and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in volver ( 2006 ) और Nine ( 2009 ) receiving Golden Globe and Academy Award nominations for each.
She won the Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Supporting Actress in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
She was the first Spanish actress in history to receive an Academy Award and the first स्पेनी अभिनेत्री to प्राप्त a स्टार at the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
क्रूज़ रै modeled for companies such as Mango, Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal.
Penélope and her younger सिस्टर mónica क्रूज़ have designed items for Mango.
She has दान both her time and money to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India, where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ; she दान her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission.
A wax sculpture of Cruz will be placed in a premier spot in the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as Windows Explorer, is a file manager application and also a navigation tool that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system इससे खिड़कियाँ 95 onwards.
It provides a graphical user interface for accessing the file systems.
It is भी the घटक of the ऑपरेटिंग system that presents many user interface items on the monitor such as the taskbar and desktop.
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer कार्यशील ( लिये उदाहरण, the संचिका | चलाएं कमांड in कार्य मैनेजर on nt-derived versions of Windows will function without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the C : \Windows निर्देशिका, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
The Care Bears are वर्ण निर्मित by अमरीकी Greetings in 1981 for use on greeting cards.
The original कलाकृति लिये the cards was painted by artist Elena Kucharik.
In 1983, kenner turned the Care Bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the Land Without Feelings ( 1983 ) और the परवाह bears बैटल the फ्रीज यंत्र ( 1984 ).
वे भी था उनके अपना टेलीविज़न श्रेणी इससे 1985 to 1988, in addition to three feature films : The Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ), Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ), and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each Care भालू आता in a अलग रंग और रै a specialized insignia on its belly that represents its duty and personality.
This तमगा थी known as their `` tummy symbol. ''
However, the movie Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! renamed उन्हें `` belly badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` परवाह भालू cousins '', जिससे विशेषता a शेर, खरगोश, पेंगुइन, raccoon, and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced साथ नई खिलौने.
Made by Play-Along Toys, the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon टच, एरोबिक bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated movies : Care Bears : Journey to Joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) और the परवाह bears ' बिग काश फिल्म ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th वर्षगांठ ; another relaunch took प्लेस, as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, AG announced a पुनरुद्धार tv एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premiere of the series utilizes `` 30 सालो of caring ''.
It premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, Care Bears merchandise is स्टिल होने marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted to acquire the franchise from AGC, with no apparent कामयाबी.
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the संयुक्त राज्य कि रनों इससे अंतरराज्यीय 15 near Cove Fort, Utah, to a Park and Ride near Baltimore, Maryland.
It was the first अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the United States.
I-70 approximately traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( और also the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the Rockies, the route of i-70 थी निकला from multiple sources.
I-70 is the fifth longest Interstate Highway, after i-90, i-80, i-40, and I-10.
The construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the रूट गुजरता through the आइज़नहावर टनल, glenwood canyon, and the San Rafael Swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest पाइंट साथ the Interstate Highway system with an elevation of.
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and Kansas have रखी अर्जी to be the पहला अंतरराज्यीय in the United States.
Though disputed, the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the section of I-70 through glenwood canyon, समाप्त in 1992, थी the पिछला टुकड़ा of the अंतरराज्यीय Highway system, as originally planned, to open to traffic.
Photo of 1999 कुल ग्रहण
As seen from the Earth, a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the सूर्य और धरती, और the चंद्रमा fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen only at new moon, when the Sun and the Moon are in संयोजन as देखी इससे धरती in an संरेखण referred to as syzygy.
In a total eclipse, the disk of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the Moon.
In आंशिक और annular eclipses only part of the Sun is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly गोलाकार कक्षा, a छोटी करीब to the Earth, and in the same orbital plane, there would be total solar eclipses every single month.
However, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5 degrees to Earth 's orbit around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so इसके छाया at नई चंद्रमा प्रायः चूकें धरती.
धरती 's कक्षा is पुकारा the ecliptic प्लेन as the चंद्रमा 's orbit must cross this plane in order for an eclipse ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's वास्तविक कक्षा is अंडाकार, प्रायः लेने it far enough away from Earth that its apparent size is not large enough to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at तनिक दो, और up to पाँच, solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular location because totality exists तभी साथ a सीमित पाथ on धरती 's सतह traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra.
An ग्रहण is a प्राकृतिक phenomenon.
nevertheless, in कुछ प्राचीन और आधुनिक संस्कृतियों, सौर eclipses have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its खगोलीय स्पष्टीकरण, as the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes.
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun, observers should use खास नजर सुरक्षा or अप्रत्यक्ष देखने तकनीकों when viewing a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a total eclipse.
It is safe to view the total phase of a total सौर ग्रहण साथ the unaided eye and without protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles will travel to रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe or witness predicted central solar eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` part '', `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, government policy, प्रायः by nominating उम्मीदवार साथ लकीर राजनैतिक दृश्य and trying to seat them in political office.
Parties participate in electoral अभियान और शैक्षणिक outreach or protest actions.
Parties often espouse an विचारधारा or दृष्टि, expressed in a party program, bolstered by a written platform with specific goals, forming a coalition among disparate interests.
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting पेड़ in the flowering संयंत्र family Anacardiaceae.
the आम is देशी to दक्षिण Asia, from where it has been distributed worldwide to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) are also grown on a more localized basis, Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the तभी आम पेड़ commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of India, पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन.
In several cultures, its fruit and leaves are ritually used as floral decorations at weddings, public celebrations and धार्मिक ceremonies.
Gill Arnette Byrd, < ref name > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the San Diego Chargers after graduating from San Jose State University.
Byrd was inducted into the chargers Hall of Fame in 1998.
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ), helping to lead the Cardinals to the नगर चैंपियनशिप in उसके वरिष्ठ ऋतु of 1978.
World map showing the tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, भी referred to as the उत्तरी tropic, is the circle of latitude on the Earth that marks the most northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith.
This इवेंट occurs एकबार प्रति साल, at the समय of the June solstice, when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It currently ( Year 2013 ) झूठ at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator.
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart, marking the most southerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे overhead, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
These tropics are two of the five major degree measures or major circles of latitude that mark maps of the धरती, besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store डिजिटल वीडियो on dvd discs, और is फिलहाल the dominant consumer video format in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the आंकड़ा rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first available लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly उपलब्धियाँ, क्युकी प्रत्येक सदस्य must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
निश्चित सूचना in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential.
In computing and specifically Internet, a leech is एक जो लाभ, प्रायः deliberately, इससे अन्य ' information or effort but does not offer anything in return, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech.
In economics, this type of behavior is called `` free सवारी '' and is associated with the free rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources, but often instead to लालची उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit, using too much of कया is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it.
The name derives from the जोंक, an एनिमल कि sucks blood and then tries to leave unnoticed.
Other शर्तें हैं प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as `` freeloader '', but leech is the most common.
The full eagle logo, used in विभिन्न संस्करण from 1970 to 1993.
The United राज्य Postal Service ( USPS ), also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail, is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible for providing postal service in the United States.
It is one of the few सरकारी एजेंसियों explicitly authorized by the United States Constitution.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 दौरान the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय Congress, where Benjamin Franklin was appointed the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and रूपांतरित into इसके वर्तमान form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 मजदूर and operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the operator of the largest गाडी fleet in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve all Americans, regardless of geography, at uniform price and quality.
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the United States, but still competes against private package delivery services, such as UPS and FedEx.
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the early 1980s with the minor exception of subsidies for costs संबद्ध साथ the निष्क्रिय और विदेशी मतदाता.
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail volume, after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act ``, ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced घटती मेल आवाज़, prompting the डाक सेवा to dekh to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, D.C. has महरूम the पूंजी of the United States since 1800.
Eight other cities have served as the meeting place for Congress and are therefore considered to have एकबार महरूम the पूंजी of the संयुक्त States.
In addition, each of the 50 U.S. states और the पाँच प्रिंसिपल territories of the संयुक्त States maintains its own capital.
राजकुमारी cut diamond set in a ring
The Princess cut is the second most popular cut shape for ईंट, अगला to a round brilliant.
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is समान to कि of an उलट पिरामिड with four beveled sides.
The princess cut is a अपेक्षाकृत नई डायमंड cut, having been created in the 1960s.
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more popular round brilliant cut, in जिससे the शीर्ष of diamond, called the crown, is cut with a round face-up shape and the bottom, called the pavilion, is shaped similar to a cone.
A princess cut with the same width as the diameter of a round brilliant will weigh more as it has four corners which would otherwise have been cut बंद और rounded to रूप a गोलाकार brilliant.
The princess cut is sometimes referred to as a वर्गाकार परिवर्धित brilliant.
However, जबकि displaying the वही high degree of brilliance, its faceting style is unique and completely different from that of a round brilliant.
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion जिससे combine to दे a पृथक cross-shaped प्रतिबिंब जब the स्टोन is viewed सीधे through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the high degree of light return of a round brilliant cut with a distinctive वर्गाकार or आयताकार आकार.
The square princess cut diamond is प्रायः थोड़ा सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट of the same carat weight because it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain more crystal weight makes this shape popular amongst डायमंड cutters.
Accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA ) and American Gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) and European Gem Laboratories-USA ( egl-usa ) हैं फिलहाल the तभी labs that grade the Princess cut for cut.
There is no universal definition of what माप मेक an आदर्श राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड और अनेक diamond manufacturers market ideal diamonds with differing facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated कि वहीँ is नहीं पर्याप्त उद्योग सर्वसम्मति or empirical data to specify cut grading standards for Princess cut diamonds and to do so is at the risk of consumers who may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades.
The name `` Princess Cut '' was originally प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ another डायमंड काटें, वरना ज्ञात as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by Arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The same name was later used and made popular by Ygal Perlman, betzalel ambar, and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
A similar cut with only 49 facets, as opposed to the original 58 facets of the princess cut, was later branded the `` quadrillion '' और initially वितरित by ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
Three years of optical शोध yielded a वर्गाकार stone with faceting similar to that of a round brilliant cut diamond.
A तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall आउटलुक of a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड.
इस can प्रायः be संकल्पित by the wire diagram that is plotted in diamond grading reports.
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion side of the diamond, the individual facets of the डायमंड होगा अभी be broken down into smaller facets.
As a परिणाम, it can give a princess cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look.
Vice versa, when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons, it tends to give the डायमंड a चंकी आउटलुक due to broader facets.
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray भेड़िया ( canis lupus ), a सदस्य of the कैनिडाए परिवार of the mammalian order Carnivora.
The term `` domestic श्वान '' is generally प्रयुक्त for both domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated and has been the सबसे widely रखा working, शिकार, and pet animal in human history.
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine species, as opposed to the word `` कुतिया '' लिये the मादा of the species.
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years ago but,, the oldest fossil specimens genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें quickly becoming ubiquitous across world cultures.
Dogs perform many roles for लोगों, ऐसे as शिकार, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and military, companionship, and, more recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
इस प्रभाव on human society has given them the nickname `` Man 's Best Friend '' in the Western world.
In some संस्कृतियों, कुत्तो are also a source of meat.
In 2001, there were estimated to be 400 लाख कुत्तो in the world.
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few hundred years old, having been artificially चयनित लिये particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles.
Through this selective breeding, the श्वान रै विकसित into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal.
For example, height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from white through grays ( usually called `` blue '' ) to black, and browns from लाइट ( तन ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` चॉकलेट '' ) in a चौड़ी variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, curly, or smooth.
It is common for सबसे breeds to shed this coat.
आरेख of a हस्तांतरण electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी, musée देस कला et Métiers, Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an electron beam to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified image.
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the structure of smaller objects क्युकी electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm रेज़ोल्यूशन और magnifications of up to परिचय 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control the इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम and focus it to form an image.
These electron ऑप्टिकल lenses हैं analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope.
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of biological and inorganic specimens including microorganisms, कोशिकाएं, विशाल अणुओं, biopsy samples, metals, and crystals.
Industrially, the electron microscope is often used for quality control and failure analysis.
Modern electron microscopes produce इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs, using specialized digital cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried मुर्गा तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां founded in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Often referred to as popeyes और sometimes as popeyes मुर्गा & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood, It was acquired by Sandy Springs, Georgia -based AFC Enterprises, originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a company press release dated June 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service मुर्गा रेस्तरां समूह, measured by क्रमांक of इकाई '', साथ अधिक than 1,800 रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 states and the District of Columbia, and over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, China, Hong Kong, Iraq, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Singapore, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, Vietnam, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
परिचय तीस locations are company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a weight training exercise in जिससे the व्यक्तिगत pushes a वज़न or resistance away from them using their legs.
The term लेग दबायें also refers to the apparatus used to perform this exercise.
The leg press can be used to evaluate an athlete 's overall lower body strength ( from knee joint to हिप ).
Using the तिर्यक sled-type leg press machine.
There are दो प्रमुख प्रकार of leg press:
The diagonal or लंबवत 'sled ' type leg press.
Weight disks ( plates ) are attached directly to the sled, which is आरोहित on rails.
The user sits below the sled और pushes it upward with their feet.
These machines normally शामिल समायोज्य सुरक्षा brackets that prevent the user from being trapped under the weight.
The 'cable ' प्रकार लेग press, or 'seated leg press ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits upright and pushes forward with their feet onto a plate that is attached to the वज़न स्टेक by अर्थात् of a long स्टील केबल.
Wendy विलियम्स शिकारी ( born वेन्डी जोन Williams ; July 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, actress and author.
She होस्ट a syndicated टेलीविज़न बात show, The Wendy Williams Show.
prior to टेलीविज़न, Williams was a `` shock jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams has gained notoriety for her on-air spats साथ celebrities.
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The Wendy Williams अनुभव जिससे ब्रॉडकास्ट events surrounding her radio show.
She has written an आत्मकथा and several other books, and has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams.
Patrick Henry `` देशद्रोह '' speech before the House of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter F. Rothermel
`` Give me स्वतंत्रता, or दे me मौत ! '' is a quotation attributed to Patrick Henry from a speech he made to the Virginia Convention.
on कि दिन, at st. जॉन 's गिरिजाघर in Richmond, Virginia, and is credited with having swung the balance in convincing the Virginia House of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
Among the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य us Presidents Thomas Jefferson and George Washington.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
situated in the देश 's Atlantic region, it incorporates the island of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to the northwest, with a combined area of.
In 2011, the प्रांत 's population was 514,536.
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its associated smaller आइलैंड्स ), of जिससे अधिक than हाफ live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous, साथ 97.6 % of निवासियों रिपोर्टिंग अंग्रेज़ी ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ;.
historically, न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड थी भी घर to unique varieties of French, and Irish, as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language.
In Labrador, local dialects of innu-aimun और inuktitut are also spoken.
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city, St. John 's, is Canada 's 20th-largest Census महानगर क्षेत्रफल, और is घर to लगभग 40 प्रतिशत of the प्रांत 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of सरकारी, घर to the हाउस of सभा of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador and the highest court in the jurisdiction, the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom, Newfoundland and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian Confederation on कूच 31, 1949, as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड.
On December 6, 2001, an amendment was made to the Constitution of कनाडा to बदलें the प्रांत 's official name to Newfoundland and Labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, Canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as Newfoundland and to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador.
Theodore `` t.r. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; October 27, 1858—January 6, 1919 ) थी the 26th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his exuberant personality, range of रूचि और उपलब्धियाँ, और उसके नेतृत्व of the Progressive Movement, as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity.
He was a leader of the Republican Party and founder of the first अवतार of the short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before बनने अध्यक्ष, he held offices at the city, state, and federal levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, explorer, hunter, author, and soldier are as much a part of his fame as कोई दफ्तर he आयोजित as a राजनेता.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest अध्यक्ष कभी ; he ताल आउट the youngest elected president, John F. Kennedy, by only one year.
रूज़वेल्ट थी भी the पहला of only three sitting presidents to have won the Nobel Peace Prize.
The Teddy bear is named after him, despite उसके अवमानना लिये होने पुकारा `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in New York City, Roosevelt was a sickly child who suffered from asthma and stayed at home studying प्राकृतिक इतिहास.
To overcome his शारीरिक कमज़ोरी, he embraced a strenuous life.
Home-schooled, he became an eager छात्र of nature.
He attended Harvard University, where he studied जीवविज्ञान, boxed और विकसित an interest in naval affairs.
In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York State सभा, जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार गुट of उसके रिपब्लिकन Party ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his professional reputation as a serious इतिहासकार ; he लिखा numerous किताबे on शिकार, the बाहरी, और वर्तमान राजनैतिक issues, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, his first wife और उसके माँ died on the same day.
He temporarily बाएँ राजनीती और गई to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran for mayor in 1886, finishing तीसरा साथ 60,000 votes.
He later gained fame by taking vigorous चार्ज of the नगर पुलिस.
At the national level, he was a नेता in सिविल सेवा reform.
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while रूज़वेल्ट थी, effectively, कार्यशील the Department of the Navy.
He promptly resigned and formed the Rough Riders – a volunteer cavalry रेजीमेंट कि लड़ा in क्यूबा.
The war hero थी निर्वाचित राज्यपाल in 1898 and in 1900 was nominated for vice president.
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect President William McKinley on a platform of ऊँची tariffs, the सुनहरा मानक, imperialism, prosperity at home and victory abroad.
In 1901, President William McKinley was assassinated और रूज़वेल्ट became President.
He attempted to move the Republican पार्टी ( gop ) toward प्रगतिवाद, including trust busting and increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his predecessor, winning the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote since the uncontested election of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic agenda, emphasizing कि the औसत नागरिक होता मिलेंगी a मेला share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman और naturalist, he प्रचारित the conservation movement.
On the world stage, रूज़वेल्ट 's नीतियों यहूद characterized by his slogan, `` Speak softly and carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a सापेक्ष with whom a person shares one or more common ancestor ( s ) ( other than a parent, child/descendant, sibling, child/descendant of a sibling, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
However in common parlance, `` cousin '' normally specifically means `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the English-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the व्यापक भाव ) और the पूर्वज वे have in common.
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can more precisely specify kinships साथ आम ancestors existing any number of generations in the past, though common usage often eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from सितंबर 16, 1983 जबतक may 8, 1987, और in first-run syndication from September 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The series was created by stu चांदी.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who, after losing his parents, is adopted by his एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by एलेक्स karras, और his new socialite wife, played by Susan Clark.
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple had to adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood, लकिन it थी the अनुकूल वेबस्टर खुद जो drove much of the plot.
The series was उत्पादित by Georgian Bay Ltd., Emmanuel Lewis Entertainment Enterprises, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television.
Like NBC 's earlier hit diff'rent स्ट्रोक्स, वेबस्टर प्रदर्शित a यंग African-American boy adopted by a white family.
Three types of कोशिका division
Cell division is the process by which a parent cell divides into two or अधिक बेटी cells.
Cell division usually occurs as part of a larger कोशिका cycle.
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division, whereby each बेटी कोशिका is genetically एकसमान to the जनक कोशिका ( समसूत्रण ), and a reductive cell division, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in their life cycle, and दोनो हैं believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic आम पूर्वज Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission, where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of सजीव, हैं preceded by a सिंगल round of DNA replication.
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba, one कोशिका प्रभाग is समतुल्य to reproduction – an entire new organism is created.
On a larger scale, mitotic cell division can create progeny इससे बहुकोशिकीय organisms, such as plants that grow from cuttings.
कोशिका प्रभाग भी enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
And after growth, cell division allows for continual निर्माण और repair of the organism.
A human being 's body experiences about 10,000 खरब कोशिका विभाजन in a lifetime.
Cell division has been modeled by परिमित subdivision rules.
The primary concern of cell division is the मेंटेनेंस of the असली cell 's genome.
Before प्रभाग can occur, the genomic सूचना कि is stored in chromosomes must be replicated, and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells.
a ग्रेट सौदे of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information consistent between `` generations ''.
पहाड़ सीमाएँ of मैसाचुसेट्स, United States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, हैम्पशायर, इंग्लैण्ड ) is a British musician, singer and songwriter.
according to the गिनीज किताब of British Hit Singles & Albums, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
Jones, who was equally popular in the u.S., appeared at Live Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` Jones was one of the धमक आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music merged the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive ध्वनि of नई वेव with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s, before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आइल of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event held on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
The event was भाग of the fim मोटरसाइकिल Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season.
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the TT Formula 1 Championship from 1977 to 1990 to preserve the इवेंट 's रेसिंग status.
From 1989 the racing has been developed by the Isle of Man Department of पर्यटन as the आइल of man tt पर्व.
The race is run in a time-trial format on public roads closed for racing by the provisions of an अधिनियम of tynwald ( the पार्लियामेंट of the Isle of Man ).
The first रेस थी आयोजित on मंगलवार 28 may 1907 and was called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of the St John 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 मील 1,470 गज लिये road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder क्लास, और overall विजेता of the पहला इवेंट in 1907, was Charlie Collier riding a Matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph.
The विजेता of the twin-cylinder क्लास was Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a time of 4 hours 21 minutes and 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph.
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 आइल of man tt रेस, थी दान by the बिल्ले de Mouzilly St. Mars.
It featured a stylised version of Olympic God Hermes by giovanni da बोलोग्ना as a चांदी figurine astride a winged wheel.
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John Napier ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural विजेता of the आइल of Man Tourist Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy.
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. मंगल ट्रॉफी is अभी presented annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 May and 8 June 2007 and featured a special re-enactment of the 1907 आइल of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
the विंटेज परेड of 100 क्लासिक motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on the original St John 's Short Course was flagged away by former World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke.
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently लौटी twin-cylinder peugeot-norton ridden by rem fowler दौरान the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907.
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 Triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT प्रतिस्पर्धी सहित एलन cathcart, सैमी मिलर, Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs when people are without work और actively seeking work.
The unemployment रेट is a माप of the व्यापकता of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force.
During periods of recession, an economy usually experiences a relatively ऊँची बेरोजगारी rate.
According to International Labour Organization report, more than 197 million people globally are out of work or 6 % of the संसार 's workforce यहूद बगैर a जॉब in 2012.
There remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the कल्याणकारी, consequences और समाधान for unemployment.
Classical economics, New classical economics, and the आस्ट्रिया School of economics argue that market mechanisms are reliable means of resolving unemployment.
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the मजदूर मार्केट इससे the बाहर, ऐसे as unionization, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and recommends government interventions in the अर्थव्यवस्था कि it दावा होगा reduce unemployment during recessions.
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and यूँ reduce माँग लिये मजदूर.
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; ये can शामिल वित्तीय stimuli, सरेआम funded job creation, and expansionist monetary policies.
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment, there are a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the effects of बेरोजगारी भीतर the economic system.
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets, including a mismatch between the सप्लाई और माँग of laborers साथ necessary skill sets.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and solutions related to विघटनकारी technologies and globalization.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their own work and how that compares to वर्तमान मजदूरी दरों plus the time and effort required to find a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment often पता जॉब प्रविष्टि threshold and wage rates.
Behavioral economists हाइलाइट व्यक्तिगत biases in निर्णय making, and often involve problems and solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages.
Collectivism is any philosophic, political, religious, economic, or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a society or civilization.
Collectivism is a मौलिक सांस्कृतिक तत्व कि exists as the reverse of individualism in human nature ( in the same way high context culture exists as the reverse of low context culture ).
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of मिलाप भीतर सोशल समूह ( such as an `` in-group '', in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases, the priority of group goals over individual goals.
collectivists often focus on community, society, nation or country.
It has been used as an element in अनेक अलग और विविध प्रकार of सरकारी और राजनैतिक, आर्थिक and educational philosophies throughout history and most human societies in practice contain elements of both individualism and collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist cultures include India and Japan.
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism और लंबवत collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, and is यूँ प्रायः आधारित on decentralization और समतावाद.
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power and on moral and सांस्कृतिक conformity, और is इसलिए based on centralization and hierarchy.
A cooperative enterprise would be an example of आड़ा collectivism, whereas a सैन्य पदानुक्रम होता be an example of vertical collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an प्रतिरक्षा mediated disease of the brain.
It usually occurs following a viral infection but may appear following vaccination, bacterial or parasitic संक्रमण, or भी appear अनायास.
As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to multiple sclerosis, and is considered part of the Multiple काठिन्य borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is about 8 per 1,000,000 लोगों per year.
Although it occurs in all ages, most reported cases are in children and adolescents, साथ the औसत आयु around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 %, full recovery is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % रिकवर साथ कुछ नाबालिग अवशेष disability.
the औसत समय to recover is one to six months.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the brain and spinal cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are मिला in the subcortical और सेंट्रल श्वेत पदार्थ और cortical gray-white जंक्शन of both cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord, but periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved.
When the patient suffers अधिक than एक demyelinating एपीसोड, it is पुकारा तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestion system which कृत्यों as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in some animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
It is involved in the second phase of पाचन, following mastication ( chewing ).
the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in खाना पाचन, ( भेजा to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines.
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately इससे stoma ( ), `` mouth ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning related to the stomach ) हैं दोनो निकला इससे the यूनानी word gaster ( ).
1940 Pontiac Special श्रेणी 25 woodie
A woodie is a car body style, especially a station wagon, जहाँ the पश्च bodywork is constructed of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the demise of actual wood construction, manufacturers used simulated woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional, simulated framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a series of side and rear आड़ा डोले.
A pearl is a hard ऑब्जेक्ट उत्पादित भीतर the नरम ऊतक ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
Just like the shell of a clam, a pearl is made up of calcium carbonate in minute crystalline रूप, जिससे रै महरूम deposited in केंद्रिय layers.
The ideal pearl is perfectly गोलाकार और चिकना, लकिन अनेक other shapes of pearls ( baroque pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have महरूम अत्यधिक valued as रत्नों और वस्तुएँ of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक सदियां, and because of this, the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare, fine, admirable, and valuable.
the सबसे मूल्यवान मोती occur spontaneously in the wild, but they are extremely rare.
ये जंगली मोती are referred to as natural pearls.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels मेक up the बहुमत of those that are currently sold.
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry, but the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is प्रायः बहुत ग़रीब, और प्रायः, कृत्रिम pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls.
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily लिये use in jewelry, but in the past they were also stitched onto lavish clothing.
Pearls have also been crushed and used in cosmetics, दवाइयाँ, और in पेंट formulations.
Whether wild or संस्कारी, gem विशेषता मोती are almost always nacreous and, as is the interior of the shell that produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although ये may भी be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S. Federal Trade Commission rules, and are formed in the same way, most of them have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as सजीव ढूंढें, खिड़कियाँ सजीव ढूंढें, and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft.
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28, 2009 at the All Things Digital सम्मेलन in सैन डिएगो लिये release on June 1.
notable परिवर्तन शामिल the लिस्टिंग of ढूंढें सुझाव जबकि प्रश्नों are entered and a list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, Microsoft and Yahoo ! घोषित a सौदे in जिससे bing होता शक्ति Yahoo ! Search.
All Yahoo ! Search global customers और साझेदार हैं अपेक्षित to have made the transition by early 2012.
In October 2011, Bing announced it थी working on नई back-end ढूंढें infrastructure, with the goal of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users.
Known as `` Tiger '', the new index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै महरूम incorporated into Bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of इसके ढूंढें इंजन कि शामिल `` साइडबार '', a social feature that searches users ' social networks for information relevant to the search query.
A diagram showing an I गठन on ठोकर and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football, प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the field at one time.
The specific role that a player takes on the field is called their स्थिति.
Under the modern rules of American फ़ुटबॉल, टीमों हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी, the ठोकर ( the टोली साथ the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various specific positions मौजूद depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : Airish fowk ) are an ethnic group who originate in आयरलैंड, an द्वीप in northwestern Europe.
Ireland has been आबादी लिये around 9,000 years ( according to archaeological studies, see Prehistoric Ireland ).
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed to be descended from groups such as the Nemedians, Fomorians, Fir Bolg, tuatha dé danann और the Milesians.
lebor gabála érenn, a किताब of आयरिश mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants.
The main समूह कि interacted साथ the आयरिश in the Middle Ages include the Picts, Scots, and the Vikings.
Due to this सम्पर्क, icelanders हैं noted for having some Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High Middle Ages, the English plantations और the subsequent अंग्रेज़ी नियम of the देश introduced the normans and Flemish into Ireland.
वेल्श, picts, bretons, and small parties of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier times.
There have been many notable आयरिश लोगों throughout history.
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय '', followed by kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist Robert Boyle is considered the `` पिता of रसायन ``.
Famous Irish explorers include Brendan the Navigator, Robert McClure, अर्नेस्ट shackleton और tom crean.
By some accounts, the first European child born in North America had Irish descent on both sides ; and an irishman थी the पहला यूरोपीय to set foot on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There हैं वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों जीना in अनेक western countries, particularly in English-speaking countries.
Historically, emigration has been caused by politics, famine and आर्थिक मुद्दे.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people, primarily in the संयुक्त किंगडम, the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा और Iceland ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
The largest number of वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों सजीव in the United States.
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is उच्चतर, as a प्रतिशत of कुल जनसांख्यिकी, than that of any other country.
Approximately forty percent of the settlement population of Iceland came from Ireland or स्कॉटलैंड.
The very first निवासियों of आइसलैंड were Irish.
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried into कक्षा by a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in operation.
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit, Hubble 's four main instruments observe in the निकट पराबैंगनी, visible, and near infrared.
The दूरदर्शी is नामित बाद the astronomer Edwin Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's माहौल allows it to take extremely sharp images with almost no background light.
हबल 's गहन फ़ील्ड have महरूम कुछ of the most detailed visible-light images ever, allowing a deep view into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to सफलताएँ in astrophysics, ऐसे as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe.
Although not the first space telescope, Hubble is one of the largest and most versatile, and is well known as दोनो a vital शोध औजार और a पब्लिक संबंध बून लिये astronomy.
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA, with contributions from the European Space Agency, and is operated by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी Science Institute.
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories, along with the Compton Gamma रे वेधशाला, the चन्द्रा x-ray वेधशाला, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित as early as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, with a proposed launch in 1983, but the project was beset by तकनीकी देरी, बजट problems, and the Challenger disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, scientists found that the main mirror had been ground incorrectly, compromising the दूरदर्शी 's capabilities.
The telescope was restored to its intended विशेषता by a सर्विसिंग mission in 1993.
Hubble is the only दूरदर्शी designed to be सर्विस in space by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, and replaced systems on the telescope ; a fifth mission was canceled on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster.
However, after spirited public discussion, NASA administrator Mike griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल सर्विसिंग मिशन, समाप्त in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis.
The telescope is now expected to function until at तनिक 2013.
Its scientific successor, the James Webb Space Telescope ( JWST ), is to be शुभारम्भ in 2018 or possibly later.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the प्रॉपर्टी of a पदार्थ or treatment that reduces inflammation.
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids, जिससे affect the सेंट्रल बेचैन system.
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk show कि रै aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest currently running regularly अनुसूचित entertainment कार्यक्रम in the us और the तीसरा longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today.
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ), Jay Leno ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), और कोनन o'brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts also appeared, विशेषकर during the Paar and Carson eras.
The longest-serving host to date was Johnny Carson, who hosted The Tonight Show अभिनीत जॉनी कार्सन लिये 30 सीज़न from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current host of the show is jay लीनो, जो था previously hosted the दिखाएँ from 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, एनबीसी घोषित jimmy fallon would become the new host of The Tonight Show.
The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon will premiere February 24, 2014, the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 शीत ओलंपिक.
SS Andrea डोरिया.
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa, Italy, most famous for इसके डूब in 1956, जब 52 लोगों died ( 51 इससे immediate impact ).
नामित बाद the 16th-century genoese admiral एंड्रिया डोरिया, the ship had a gross register tonnage of 29,100 and a capacity of about 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
लिये a देश attempting to rebuild इसके economy and reputation after World War II, Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride.
Of all Italy 's ships at the time, Andrea Doria was the largest, तीव्रतम और supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 जून 1951, the जलयान undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953.
On 25 July 1956, while the एंड्रिया डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket, मैसाचुसेट्स, बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क नगर, the eastbound of the Swedish American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the पक्ष, the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started to list severely to starboard, which left half of its lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant घाटा of जीवन, लकिन the दक्षता of the ship 's technical design allowed it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming.
The good behavior of the crew, improvements in communications and the rapid response of other ships averted a disaster similar in स्केल to कि of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and survived, while 46 people died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated luxury liner capsized and sank the following morning.
This accident remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in United States waters चूंकि the डूब of the in 1915.
The incident and its aftermath यहूद heavily covered by the news media.
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable, the cause of the collision with the Stockholm and the loss of Andrea डोरिया उत्पन्न much ब्याज in the मीडिया और अनेक lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the two shipping companies during hearings immediately after the disaster, no determination of the cause ( s ) थी कभी formally published.
Although greater blame appeared initially to पतन on the इतालवी लाइनर, अधिक हाल discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course, leading to errors on both ships.
Andrea Doria थी the पिछला प्रमुख transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before aircraft became the preferred method of travel.
डायलिसिस tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable झिल्ली tubing made from regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used for diffusion with solutes or osmosis if प्रयुक्त साथ जल only.
Osmosis is when water passes through a semi-permeable परत to reach equilibrium.
diffusion, on the अन्य hand, allows the movement of molecules from high concentration to low concentration.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the molecule is small enough to fit through the झिल्ली or a membrane 's pore.
This usually results with the effects of diffusion through a membrane only really affects छोटी अणुओं, और लगभग never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical circumstances to ensure a filtered प्रवाह of अणुओं, preventing the flow of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' आउट of a समाधान जिससे is pumped through the tubing into a solvent, usually water, which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing several types of molecules, प्रायः ग्लूकोज और मंड, is लगाई into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, such as a cellulose membrane with pores, and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band.
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in a संग्राहक of a different solution, or water.
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water, salts, monosaccharides, and other small molecules ) tend to मूव into or आउट of the डायलिसिस थैला in the दिशा of अवरोहण concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger molecules ( such as proteins, or polysaccharides ) कि have आयाम significantly वृहद than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic समाधान ( a समाधान कि रै a lesser solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) होगा cross a semi-permeable membrane, like dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium, where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium.
पारा प्रयोगशाला thermometer
A thermometer ( from the Greek, thermos, अर्थ `` hot '' और μἐτρον, metron, `` माप '' ) is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles.
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g. the bulb on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in which some physical change occurs with temperature, plus some means of converting this physical बदलें into a numerical मान ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
There हैं अनेक प्रकार और अनेक uses for thermometers, as detailed below in sections of this article.
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical fantasy फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी और released by RKO Radio Pictures.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and the earliest in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक series.
The story was adapted by storyboard कलाकारों डोरोथी ऐन रिक्त, रिचर्ड creedon, Merrill De Maris, Otto Englander, Earl Hurd, Dick Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb Smith.
David Hand was the supervising director, जबकि विलियम cottrell, विल्फ्रेड जैक्सन, लैरी morey, Perce Pearce, and Ben Sharpsteen directed the film 's individual sequences.
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a nationwide release on फ़रवरी 4, 1938, और साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय आय of $ 8 लाख during its initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound film at the time.
The popularity of the film has led to it होने re-released theatrically many times, until its home video release in the 1990s.
Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the top टेन performers at the North American box office.
At the 11th Academy पुरस्कार, वॉल्ट डिज़्नी थी awarded an honorary Oscar, and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score.
It was added to the संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute 's list of the 100 greatest American films, who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008.
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big cultural impact, resulting in a लोकप्रिय थीम पार्क आकर्षण, a वीडियो game, and a Broadway musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a गर्भावस्था काल साथ the expulsion of एक or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the cervix, descent and जनम of the शिशु, और जनम of the placenta.
in अनेक मामले और साथ increasing frequency, childbirth is achieved through induction of labor or caesarean section, which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen, rather than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the u.S. इससे 1996 to 2006, and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With respect to induced labor, more than 22 % of women undergo induction of labour in the United States.
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well as harmful or without benefit to the mother, and have established strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean पहले 39 weeks.
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera and his crew as they undertook चुनौतियां, performed stunts and traveled the world.
The show ran for 5 seasons between 2003 और 2005.
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / एडवेंचर comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell.
It was made in the partnership between Aardman एनिमेशन और ड्रीमवर्क्स Animation, and is Aardman 's first completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the voice talents of ह्यूज जैकमैन, केट विंसलेट, एंडी serkis, Bill Nighy, Ian McKellen, Shane Richie and Jean Reno.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter Lord, Dick Clement, and Ian La Frenais, and the screenplay was written by लंड सहनशील, इयान la frenais, क्रिस्टोफर Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William Davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, and in UK on December 1 2006, और थी वितरित by सर्वोपरि Pictures, except for Switzerland, Spain, and the Netherlands, which were handled by Universal Pictures.
The Atlanta Braves are a professional baseball team based in अटलांटा.
The Braves are a member of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of Major League Baseball 's National League.
The Braves have निभाई in Turner Field since 1997.
The `` Braves '' name, which was first प्रयुक्त in 1912, originates from a term for a Native American warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '', and often referred to as `` America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's खेल होने ब्रॉडकास्ट on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ tbs इससे the 1970s जबतक 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball, winning division titles an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in कि काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there were no official division champions ).
The braves जीती the nl वेस्ट 1991–93 और the NL East 1995–2005, and returned to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
The Braves advanced to the World Series five times in the 1990s, जीतना the शीर्षक in 1995.
Since their debut in the National League in 1876, the मताधिकार रै जीती 16 डिवीजनल शीर्षक, 17 नेशनल League pennants, as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
the braves हैं the only MLB franchise to have won the World Series in three different home cities.
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( not to be confused साथ the अमरीकी लीग 's बोस्टन रेड sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest continuously playing टोली in प्रमुख उत्तर अमरीकी खेल. ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago lost two seasons to the ग्रेट शिकागो आग, यूँ the braves have played more consecutive seasons.
After various name changes ( such as the Boston beaneaters ), the टोली संचालित as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century.
In 1953, the team moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee Braves, followed by the मूव to अटलांटा in 1966.
The team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous लिये हांक आरोन तोड़कर Babe Ruth 's career home run record in 1974, though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee.
His record stood until 2007, when San फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ क्षेत्ररक्षक Barry Bonds broke the record.
the पत्ते of a Beech tree
3d रेंडरिंग of a μct scan of a leaf piece, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant, as defined in वनस्पति शर्तें, और in particular in plant morphology.
foliage is a द्रव्यमान संज्ञा कि refers to leaves as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a thin, flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis, but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ), some are not ऊपर मैदान ( ऐसे as बल्ब तराजू ), और कुछ हैं बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls, spines, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or even of some lichens, which हैं नहीं पौधे at सब ( in the भाव of होने सदस्यों of the किंगडम Plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
Furthermore, several structures found in vascular plants look like leaves but हैं नहीं दरअसल पत्ते ; वे differ from leaves in their structures and origins.
Examples include phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
Title कार्ड लिये the 1937 Our Gang comedy Rushin ' Ballet.
हमारी गिरोह ( भी ज्ञात as the छोटी दुष्टों or एचएएल Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of American comedy short films about a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures.
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach, the series is noted for showing children behaving in a relatively natural way, as Roach and original निदेशक रॉबर्ट F. mcgowan worked to फिल्मी the unaffected, कच्चा nuances apparent in नियमित children बल्कि than have them imitate adult acting styles.
In addition, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and blacks together in a समूह as बराबरी, कुछ कि `` broke नई मैदान, '' according to film historian Leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never been done before in cinema लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम repeated after the success of Our Gang.
The first उत्पादन at the रोच स्टुडियो in 1922 was a series of silent short subjects.
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, and converted the series to sound in 1929, the series took off even further.
Production continued at the Roach studio until 1938, when the series was बेची to mgm, who then continued producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220 शॉर्ट्स और एक विशेषता फिल्मी, सामान्य Spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark following their purchase of the production rights, the 80 Roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated लिये टेलीविज़न अंतर्गत the शीर्षक the छोटी दुष्टों beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in अनुप्रयोग, साथ आवधिक नई प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the years, including a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( also zacharias जानसन or sacharias जानसन ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg associated with the invention of the first optical telescope.
Janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the पहला truly यौगिक सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
However, the origin of the microscope, just like the origin of the दूरदर्शी, is a पदार्थ of debate.
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater झील in the सिएरा नेवाडा of the संयुक्त राज्य.
At a surface elevation of, it is located along the border between California and नेवाडा, west of Carson City.
Lake tahoe is the largest alpine lake in North America.
Its depth is, making it the United State 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater झील in Oregon, being deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest lake by volume in the संसार at.
the झील थी formed परिचय 2 लाख सालो पहले और is a part of the Lake Tahoe Basin with the modern lake being shaped during the ice ages.
It is known for the स्पष्टता of इसके जल and the panorama of surrounding mountains on all sides.
The area surrounding the झील is भी referred to as Lake Tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in दोनो नेवाडा और California.
it is घर to a क्रमांक of ski resorts, summer outdoor recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow and skiing are a significant part of the area 's economy and reputation.
Mountain and lake नजारा हैं attractions throughout the year.
the नेवाडा पक्ष भी शामिल large casinos.
Highways provide year-round अभिगम from Reno, Carson City, and Sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's प्रमाणन in the नेशनल Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's certification
पेज 3 of the amendment 's certification
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law that increases or decreases the सैलरी of सदस्यों of the कॉंग्रेस इससे लेने effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives.
It is the most recent amendment to the United States संविधान.
It was submitted to the states for ratification in 1789 and थी अपनाया in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about the sloth of German intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to शक्ति और the subsequent purging of their chosen targets, group after group.
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ; the content of the quotation may have been प्रस्तुत differently by niemöller on अलग occasions.
This list of islands by area includes all islands in the world greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending अनुक्रम by area.
For तुलना, महाद्वीपों are also shown.
Four तिहाई logo
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by ओलम्पस और कोडक लिये डिजिटल single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a मानक that, with digital cameras and lenses available from multiple manufacturers, allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers.
seems to कवर the standard.
Proponents describe it as an open मानक, लकिन कंपनियाँ may तभी उपयोग it under a non-disclosure agreement.
Unlike older SLR systems, Four Thirds has been designed from the मैदान up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses हैं extensively computerized, to the point that Olympus offers firmware updates for many of them.
Lens design has been tailored to the requirements of digital सेंसर, सबसे notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the sensor is significantly smaller than for most DSLRs and this implies that lenses, विशेषकर telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For example, a Four Thirds lens with a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more compact.
Thus, the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2, and while this enables longer फोकल लंबाई लिये वृहद आवर्धन, it करता n't सहायता the manufacture of wide angle lenses.
The चित्र सेंसर स्वरूप, generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger SLRs and smaller compact cameras, generally gives levels of cost, performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes.
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air to a रूम through आउटलेट vents, पुकारा diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, ventilation, और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) is the प्रौद्योगिकी of indoor and automotive environmental comfort.
hvac प्रणाली डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, based on the principles of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the फ़ील्ड 's संक्षिप्त as hvac & r or hvacr, or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the designation of HACR-rated circuit breakers ).
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments ऐसे as एक्वैरियम, जहाँ सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं regulated with respect to temperature and humidity, using fresh air from outdoors.
वेंटिलेशन on the downdraught प्रणाली, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning is based on आविष्कारों और discoveries बना by निकोलय lvov, माइकल फैराडे, Willis Carrier, Reuben Trane, James Joule, William Rankine, Sadi Carnot, and many others.
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution, and new methods of modernization, उच्चतर दक्षता, and system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide.
The three central functions of heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning are interrelated, especially with the need to provide थर्मल सुकून और स्वीकार्य अंदर एयर विशेषता भीतर reasonable installation, operation, and maintenance costs.
HVAC systems can provide ventilation, reduce air घुसपैठ, और maintain दबाव relationships between spaces.
The means of air delivery और हटाना इससे स्पेसेस is ज्ञात as room air distribution.
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for cooling and हीटिंग depends on the exterior जलवायु और आंतरिक निर्दिष्ट conditions.
However before taking up the heat load calculation, it is necessary to find fresh air requirements for प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल in विवरण, as pressurization is an महत्वपूर्ण consideration.
In modern buildings the design, installation, and कंट्रोल प्रणालियों of ये कृत्यों are integrated into one or more HVAC systems.
For very small buildings, contractors सामान्यतः क्षमता इंजीनियर और चुनें HVAC systems and equipment.
For larger buildings, building services designers and engineers, such as mechanical, architectural, or भवन सेवाएं इंजीनियर्स analyze, डिज़ाइन, और बताएँ the hvac प्रणालियों, और specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the संस्थापना हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी for all sizes of buildings.
The HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise, साथ भूमिकाएँ सहित आपरेशन and maintenance, system design and construction, equipment manufacturing and sales, and in education and research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the निर्माताओं of hvac उपकरण, लकिन regulating और मानकों संगठन ऐसे as hardi, ashrae, smacna, एसीसीए, Uniform Mechanical Code, International Mechanical Code, and AMCA have been established to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement.
Royal Navy Commander James Bond, cmg, rnvr, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by अंग्रेजों पत्रकार और novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the protagonist of the James बंध श्रेणी of novels, films, comics and video games.
Fleming wrote बारह बंध novels और two short story collections before his death, although the last two books— The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously.
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent, code number 007, residing in लंदन लकिन क्रियाशील internationally.
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of कमांडो जिसको फ्लेमिंग knew दौरान उसके सेवा in the नवल प्रज्ञा Division during World War II, to whom Fleming added his own style and a number of his own tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond.
Bond has a number of character traits which run throughout the किताबे, सहित an enjoyment of cars, a love of food and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since Fleming 's death in 1964, there have been other authorised writers of Bond material, including John Gardner, who wrote चौदह novels और दो novelizations और रेमंड बेंसन, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and three short stories.
There have also been three authors who wrote one book each, किंग्सले एमिस ( लिखने as रॉबर्ट Markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver.
Additionally a series of novels based on Bond 's youth— यंग बंध —was लिखा by Charlie Higson.
As spin-offs from the literary works, there was a टेलीविज़न अनुकूलन of the पहला अनोखा, कसीनो Royale, in which Bond was played as an American agent.
A comic strip series also ran in the रोज़ एक्स्प्रेस समाचारपत्र.
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ; seven actors have played Bond in ये films.
`` Nature Boy '' is a song by Eden ahbez, प्रकाशित in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` अजीब एनचांटेड लड़के... जो wandered very far '' only to learn that `` the greatest thing... was just to love and be loved in return ''.
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a प्रमुख hit और `` प्रकृति लड़के '' रै चूंकि become a पॉप और जैज़ standard, with dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश of the United States of America.
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive and the 25th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
इसके पूंजी is baton Rouge and largest city is New Orleans.
Louisiana is the only state in the U.S. with राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes, which are local government 's equivalent to counties.
The largest parish by population is East Baton रूज मोहल्ला, और the largest by land area is Cameron Parish.
Much of the राज्य 's lands यहूद formed इससे sediment धोया down the Mississippi River, leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp.
These contain a rich southern biota ; typical उदाहरण शामिल पक्षियों ऐसे as ibis and egrets.
There are also many species of tree frogs, and मछली ऐसे as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, fire is a प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम in the लैंडस्केप, और रै produced extensive areas of longleaf pine forest and wet savannas.
These support an exceptionally large number of संयंत्र प्रजाति, सहित many species of orchids and carnivorous plants.
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, बहुभाषी विरासत, being so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French, Spanish, Native American ( Indian ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the American purchase of the territory, the current Louisiana State had been both a Spanish और फ्रेंच उपनिवेश.
In जोड, the पैटर्न of विकास शामिल importing numerous African slaves in the 18th century, with many from the same region of West Africa, thus concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil War environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization, and in 1915, English थी बना the तभी official language of the state.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों of many societies worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and आचरण, whereas in अन्य वे may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe, predict, and शायद बताइये क्यों, a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate, accurate, broad or narrow theories, in all natural वैज्ञानिक disciplines ( भौतिकी, रसायन, जीवविज्ञान, geology, astronomy etc. ).
An analogous term for a वैज्ञानिक विधि is a principle.
वैज्ञानिक laws:
summarize a large collection of तथ्य संकल्पित by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to भविष्यवाणी the निष्कर्ष of an प्रयोग, दिए the initial, boundary, and other physical conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - वे हैं वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान that experiments have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ).
Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked out, but rather the scope of अनुप्रयोग, चूंकि the समीकरण ( if कोई ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, they do not have absolute certainty जैसे गणितीय theorems or पहचान, और it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations.
are often कोटेड as a आधारभूत controlling influence rather than a description of observed facts.
I.e. `` the कानून of motion require that ''
Laws differ इससे hypotheses और postulates, जिससे हैं प्रस्तावित during the scientific process before and during validation by experiment and observation.
These are not laws since they have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general, हालांकि वे may सीसे to the formulation of laws.
A law is a more solidified और औपचारिक statement, distilled from repeated experiment.
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy, and presents the depth to which mathematics can describe nature, scientific laws are considered from a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the scientific method ; they `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For example, whether a विधि `` refers to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical issue, rather than scientific.
Fundamentally, all वैज्ञानिक कानून follow इससे भौतिकी, कानून जिससे occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws.
Often, from mathematically आधारभूत viewpoints, universal constants emerge from scientific laws.
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 नवम्बर 2006 चिह्नित the दूसरी major seventh generation entertainment system to be released.
The system was released seven days later on 17 नवम्बर in the संयुक्त States.
परिचय into अन्य संसार बाज़ार was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device was launched in European and other world markets in the first half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and Grainger ) is a fictional character from the CBS soap operas the यंग और the बेचैन और the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
She made her debut during the एपीसोड airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began making sporadic appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful, later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995.
Following a guest appearance in 2000, Bregman returned to The Young and the बेचैन on अगस्त 24, 2001, remaining on recurring status.
In 2013, it थी घोषित that Bregman had been placed on contract.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul विलियम्स, स्कॉट grainger, sr., और माइकल baldwin among अनेक others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly.
Lauren is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये her long, violent rivalry with Sheila Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National बास्केट Association ( NBA ) championship series for the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los Angeles Lakers, champions of the Western Conference और defending NBA champions, and the Boston Celtics, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers पराजित the सेल्टिक्स, चार games to three, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी थी played between June 3 and June 17, was broadcast on ABC, and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people.
The Celtics earned their berth into the playoffs by जीतना the Atlantic Division.
the लेकर्स जीती the Pacific Division to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference First Round, the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन semifinals, और defending पूर्वी सम्मेलन चैंपियन ऑरलैंडो जादू in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven Western Conference First Round, the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals, and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन फाइनल.
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format, with the लेकर्स possessing home-court लाभ as a बदला लिये finishing साथ better regular season record than the Celtics.
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe ब्रायंट, pau gasol, और रॉन artest brought the Lakers close to victory in Game 1.
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's आठ three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in the चौथी क्वार्टर helped the Lakers win Game 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, while Paul Pierce led the टोली to a खेल 5 जीत साथ 27 अंक on 57 % शूटिंग इससे the मंजिल.
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a निर्णायक खेल 6 साथ 24 अंक contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied and won their second consecutive championship by लेने over an रोमांचक खेल 7 aided by लेट योगदान on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding.
Bryant was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals लिये उसके दूसरी consecutive trophy.
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven games since and only the fourth चूंकि the एनबीए फाइनल लौटे to a 2–3–2 स्वरूप in.
The Laker franchise has 16 एनबीए championships ( पाँच in मिनियापोलिस, 11 in Los Angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the New York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the syracuse नागरिकों 4 खेल to 3 ; और in 1955 syracuse नागरिकों defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 नेशनल हॉकी League seven game series format until 1985.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, ज्ञात as a peppercorn जब dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red when fully mature, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe फल ) और श्वेत pepper ( सूखी ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's सबसे traded spice.
It is one of the सबसे common spices added to European cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, नहीं to be उलझन with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, often युग्म साथ नमक.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
it can be लागू to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
सरलीकृत, ejection भिन्न is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a mathematical term, Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph फिक in हृदय आउटपुट.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
The prosecutor is the मुख्य विधिक प्रतिनिधि of the अभियोजन in देशों साथ either the common law adversarial system, or the civil law inquisitorial system.
The prosecution is the legal party responsible for पेश the मामला in a दण्ड विचारण विरूद्ध an individual accused of breaking the law.
Strawberry shortcake most commonly means a dessert in the shortcake परिवार of cakes.
Strawberry shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry Shortcake, a character and franchise निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई
The shortened title of Strawberry on the Shortcake, a जापानी रोमांस फिल्म.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a धार्मिक, राजनैतिक, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर और prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as the last prophet sent by परमेश्वर लिये mankind.
Non-Muslims regard मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam, नूह, अब्राहम, मूसा, यीशु, and other prophets.
Born in परिचय 570 ce in the arabian नगर of मक्का, he was orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked ज़्यादातर as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these खुलासे सरेआम, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक ``, कि complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few अनुसरणकर्ता जल्दी on, and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
To एस्केप persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the शुरूआत of the Islamic calendar, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad संयुक्त the tribes under the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of लड़ साथ the meccan जनजातियों, उसके अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by then had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few months after returning to मदीना इससे the विदाई यात्राएं, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the arabian प्रायद्वीप had converted to Islam, and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
The खुलासे ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever उनके names हैं mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
The Great किताबे ( दूसरी edition )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally published in the United States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the ग्रेट किताबे in a सिंगल पैकेज of 54 volumes.
The श्रेणी is अभी in its second edition and contains 60 volumes.
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues, and not only important in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 ग्रेट विचार पहचाना by the सम्पादक.
Books were not chosen on the basis of जातीय or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness, historical influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a सोंग लिखा और अंकित by JJ Cale in 1976, but also known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` भी लिये an कलाकार जैसे क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked साथ the जो, led zeppelin और the रोलिंग Stones, produced the Clapton recording, which was released on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The live version of `` Cocaine '', from the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo, charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the b-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of cale 's गीतों अंकित by क्लैप्टन, including `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light ''.
The attack on Pearl हार्बर ( पुकारा हवाई आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The आधार थी attacked by 353 जापानी सेनानी, bombers and torpedo planes in two waves, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All आठ u.S. नेवी battleships were damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and with the remaining four repaired, six battleships लौटे to सेवा बाद in the war.
The Japanese also sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा खण्ड ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost, और 65 servicemen मारे or wounded.
One जापानी नाविक थी captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the संयुक्त States declared war on Japan.
Domestic support लिये non-interventionism, which had been strong, disappeared.
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by क्रियाशील alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the U.S. on December 11, जिससे थी reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There यहूद numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents for unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of ब्रावो 's कामयाब प्रोजेक्ट रनवे, a reality competition for fashion designers.
Season 2 began airing on दिसम्बर 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide search earlier in the year, sixteen designers were chosen as semi-finalists और brought to नई यॉर्क नगर in जून, 2005.
After the पहला चुनौती, called `` Road To The Runway '', fourteen went on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, क्लो dao, प्राप्त $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own line, a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster, a spread in ELLE magazine, and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team.
Winning alongside Dao was her model, Grace Kelsey, who प्राप्त the elle पत्रिका spread.
Michael Kors and नीना गार्सिया लौटे as judges for the second season.
The fourth judging seat घुमाया प्रत्येक सप्ताह, आधारित on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, fashion कुर्सी at पार्सन्स the New School for Design, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx बाद appeared in प्रोजेक्ट रनवे : सब सितारों in 2012, where she finished 7th out of 13.
andrae gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the second season of the All Stars edition placing 10th out of 13.
An example of a heraclius mule
In numismatics, a mule is a coin or medal minted with obverse and रिवर्स डिजाइन नहीं सामान्यतः seen on the same piece.
These can be जानबूझकर or produced by error.
This type of गलती is अत्यधिक sought after, and examples can fetch steep prices from collectors.
The earliest mules are मिला among प्राचीन Greek and Roman coins.
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental, the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one that had officially been withdrawn from use, or the work of coiners working with dies चुराया इससे an आधिकारिक मिंट, शायद at a समय जब एक of उन्हें चाहिए have been destroyed.
The name derives from the mule, the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey, due to such a coin having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग सिक्के, much as a mule has parents of two different species.
This page documents the tornadoes और tornado outbreaks of 2010.
The बहुमत of tornadoes रूप in the u.S., but they can occur almost anywhere under the right conditions.
A lesser number occur outside the u.S., सबसे notably in भाग of neighboring दक्षिणी कनाडा दौरान the उत्तरी Hemisphere 's summer season, but are also known in South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
Elsewhere in the world, 11 people were killed in tornadoes, छह in अर्जेंटीना, तीन in the Bahamas, one in Bangladesh, and one in Germany.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period, however such changed बाद a विशाल upswing starting in लेट अप्रैल और a व्यस्त late spring and summer period.
The पतझड़ महीने यहूद थोड़ा above average.
A lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त cell in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ).
छोटी lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells.
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task automation framework, consisting of a command-line शेल and associated scripting language built on.NET Framework.
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI, enabling प्रशासकों to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on दोनो लोकल और रिमोट खिड़कियाँ systems.
In PowerShell, administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets ), which are specialized.NET classes implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in scripts, executables ( which are standalone applications ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ).
These work by accessing data in different data स्टोर्स, जैसे the filesystem or रजिस्ट्री, which are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers.
Windows powershell भी provides a होस्टिंग API with which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications.
ये अनुप्रयोग can तब उपयोग खिड़कियाँ PowerShell functionality to implement certain operations, including those exposed via the graphical interface.
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose इसके प्रबन्धन कार्यक्षमता as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft SQL Server 2008 also expose उनके प्रबन्धन इंटरफ़ेस via PowerShell cmdlets.
साथ powershell, आलेखीय interface-based management applications on Windows are layered on top of Windows PowerShell.
A PowerShell scripting interface for Windows products is mandated by the आम अभियान्त्रिकी मापदण्ड.
Windows PowerShell includes its own extensive, console-based help, similar to man pages in Unix शेल, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews, Dick वैन dyke, दाउद tomlinson, और glynis जॉन्स, उत्पादित by Walt Disney, and based on the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers.
The film was directed by Robert stevenson और लिखा by विधेयक Walsh and Don DaGradi, with songs by the Sherman Brothers.
It was shot at Walt डिज़्नी studios in Burbank, California.
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film Editing, Original Music Score, Best Song for `` Chim Chim cher-ee '' और बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव, और प्राप्त a कुल of 13 nominations.
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as television, comic books, comic strips, boardgames, वीडियो खेल, और in कुछ cases, films.
On a television कार्यक्रम, लिये उदाहरण, the story would unfold over many episodes.
In television, the use of the story arc is much more common in dramas than in comedies, especially in soap operas.
webcomics हैं अधिक संभावित to उपयोग स्टोरी arcs than समाचारपत्र comics, as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on.
Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in संबंध to the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी wiseguy, and was quickly adapted for other uses.
Many American comic book series are now written in चार or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series.
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending निरंतरता कि एकबार characterised कॉमिक्स.
Black Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United States, often regarded as the शुरूआत of the क्रिसमस shopping season.
In recent years, most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered promotional sales to kick off the holiday shopping season, similar to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is not an official public holiday as such, लकिन अनेक non-retail कर्मचारी और स्कूलों have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और the दिन बाद बंद, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005, although news reports, which at कि समय यहूद inaccurate, have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी दिन of the year for a much longer period of time.
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia, where it originally was used to describe the heavy and विघटनकारी पैदल और गाडी ट्रैफ़िक जिससे would occur on the day after Thanksgiving.
Use of the term started पहले 1961 और began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an वैकल्पिक स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : that `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For many years, it was आम लिये रिटेलर to open at 6:00 a.m., but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011, when several retailers ( including Target, Kohl 's, Macy 's, Best Buy, and bealls ) खोली at मध्यरात्रि लिये the first time.
In 2012, Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where opening on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to blue laws, such as मैसाचुसेट्स जहाँ वे स्टिल खोली around midnight ), prompting calls for a walkout among some workers.
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting aggressive crowds, with annual reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the बेहतरीन सौदे on a उत्पाद पहले आपूर्तियाँ run out.
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie drama लिखा, उत्पादित, और निर्देशित by Tyler Perry.
The screenplay focuses on two families, one धनवान और the अन्य working क्लास, जिनकी lives are intertwined in both love and business.
The movie is the second of four in which Perry 's signature character, madea, करता नहीं मेक an रूप.
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's Little Girls ) that is not based on any of the filmmaker 's स्टेज plays.
Net 10, Net 15, Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days, et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the विक्रेता भीतर 10, 15, 30 or 60 दिनों बाद the goods are dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 शर्तें हैं प्रायः coupled with a credit for early payment.
The word net in this sense means `` total बाद सब छूट. ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण, trim ), और more recently from the French net ( sharp, neat, clean ).
Roadtown, tortola
The British West Indies were the islands in and around the caribbean कि यहूद भाग of the अंग्रेजों Empire.
in 1912, the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज यहूद विभाजित into आठ colonies : The Bahamas, Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, Jamaica ( with its dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ), Trinidad and Tobago, the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the द्वीप territories मगर the अंग्रेजों वर्जिन आइलैंड्स, the Bahamas, British Honduras and British Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation.
It was hoped कि the संघ होता become स्वतंत्र as a single nation, but it had limited powers, many practical problems, and a lack of popular support.
Consequently, the वेस्ट इंडीज Federation was dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now स्वतंत्र as पृथक देशों, with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States, the Association of Caribbean States, the World Trade Organization, the United Nations, the Caribbean Community, the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others.
The शेष are British overseas territories.
All the पूर्व राष्ट्र of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट Indies, except the Commonwealth of Dominica, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago, are Commonwealth Realms.
The term is still used for British Overseas Territories in the caribbean, ऐसे as the केमन आइलैंड्स.
The remaining British West इंडीज
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` जार्ज Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by मेमोरी लेन म्यूज़िक समूह, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
उद्घाटन Day 2009 on the west steps of the U.S. Capitol.
President George W. बुश and First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, 2005
The inauguration of the president of the संयुक्त राज्य is a ceremonial इवेंट अंकन the commencement of a new four-year term of a president of the United States.
The day a presidential inauguration occurs is known as `` Inauguration Day '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a संडे ).
( Prior to the बीसवीं amendment, the तिथि थी कूच 4, the day of the year on which the Constitution of the United States first took effect in 1789 ; the last inauguration to take place on the older date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent public presidential inauguration ceremony, the swearing in of President Barack Obama to begin his second four-year पद in दफ्तर, took प्लेस on सोमवार, January 21, 2013.
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that the president make an oath or प्रतिज्ञान पहले कि व्यक्ति can `` डालें on the निष्पादन '' of the office of the presidency.
However, over the years, various traditions have arisen that have विस्तारित the उद्घाटन from a simple oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, including parades, speeches, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy Carter, the प्राथमिक उद्घाटन दिन रस्म took place on the Capitol 's East Portico.
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan, the रस्म रै महरूम आयोजित at the Capitol 's West Front.
The inaugurations of विलियम हावर्ड taft in 1909 और reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the Capitol due to cold weather.
The War of 1812 and World युद्ध ii caused दो inaugurations to be held at other locations in Washington, D.C.
When George Washington was inaugurated, the oath was administered by Robert livingston, चांसलर of नई यॉर्क राज्य, in 1789, and by William Cushing, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in अध्यक्ष जॉन Adams, no chief justice has missed an Inauguration Day.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday, the chief justice has administered the oath to the अध्यक्ष on the संडे privately और तब again the अगला दिन publicly.
When a new president takes over mid-term due to the death or resignation of a अध्यक्ष, the oath of office is administered but formal, public inauguration events have not been held.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28, 1986 ), known by her stage name Lady Gaga, is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, नर्तकी, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
Born and raised in New York City, she primarily studied at the Convent of the पवित्र दिल और briefly attended New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the rock music scene of मैनहटन 's Lower East Side.
By the end of 2007, record executive और निर्माता विंसेंट हर्बर्ट हस्ताक्षरित her to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records.
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, her vocal abilities captured the ध्यान of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार एकॉन, जो भी हस्ताक्षरित उसके to kon सजीव वितरण, his own label under Interscope.
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of her debut album, The Fame ( 2008 ), which was a critical and commercial success that topped charts around the world and शामिल the अंतरराष्ट्रीय number-one singles `` बस नृत्य `` और `` पोकर फेस ``.
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour, she followed the एल्बम साथ the कीर्ति दानव ( 2009 ), जिससे spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad Romance ``, `` Telephone ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
the कीर्ति राक्षस कामयाबी अनुमत उसके to embark on the eighteen-month long Monster Ball Tour, which later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time.
Her most हाल एल्बम, born इस रास्ता ( 2011 ), अव्वल the चार्ट of सबसे प्रमुख बाज़ार and generated more international chart-topping singles, including `` Born This Way ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
Influenced by Britney Spears, David Bowie, Michael Jackson, Madonna, and Queen, Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant, diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through उसके फ़ैशन, प्रदर्शन और म्यूज़िक videos.
As of October 2011, she has sold an estimated 23 million albums and 64 million singles विश्वव्यापी और उसके singles हैं कुछ of the best-selling worldwide.
Her achievements include five Grammy पुरस्कार और 13 एमटीवी Video Music Awards.
Lady गागा has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music, is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in US according to RIAA, is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine.
Besides her musical करियर, वो involves herself with humanitarian causes and LGBT activism.
McKethan स्टेडियम home of Gator baseball
A चित्र of the 1924 Baseball team
The Florida Gators baseball टोली represents the University of Florida in the sport of baseball.
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA ), and the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the southeastern Conference ( SEC ).
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the university 's Gainesville, Florida campus, and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program, the team has won twelve SEC championships और रै appeared in eight College World Series tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
For the Radiohead सोंग, see OK Computer.
Presidential campaign button लिये Abraham Lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the button shows a portrait of his running mate Hannibal Hamlin.
A political campaign is an organized प्रयत्न जिससे seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group.
In democracies, राजनैतिक अभियान प्रायः refer to चुनावी अभियान, wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided.
In modern politics, the most high profile political campaigns are focused on candidates for head of state or head of सरकारी, प्रायः a अध्यक्ष or प्रधान Minister.
एलिज़ाबेथ cady Stanton and her daughter, Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902 ) was an American social activist, abolitionist, और अग्रणी फिगर of the जल्दी महिलाओं 's अधिकारों movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, नई यॉर्क, is प्रायः credited साथ initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित महिलाओं 's अधिकारों and women 's suffrage movements in the United States.
पहले stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights, she was an active abolitionist together with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's rights movement, Stanton addressed विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining to महिलाओं beyond voting rights.
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights, property rights, employment and income अधिकारों, divorce, the economic health of the family, and birth control.
She was भी an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement.
After the American Civil War, stanton 's प्रतिबद्धता to मादा suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति when she, together with Susan B. Anthony, declined to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
वो opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights to African American men while women, black and white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond voting rights, led to the formation of दो पृथक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined, with Stanton as president of the joint organization, approximately twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's Bible and her autobiography, along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage और महिलाओं 's अधिकारों.
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon George बर्नार्ड शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ किताब and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
The story concerns Eliza Doolittle, a Cockney flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so कि वो may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway उत्पादन थी a hit, सेटिंग कया थी तब the रिकार्ड लिये the longest run of any major musical theatre production in history.
It was followed by a hit लंदन उत्पादन, a popular film version, and numerous revivals.
It has been called `` the पूर्ण musical ''.
Deregulation is the act or process of removing or reducing state regulations.
It is therefore opposite of regulation, which refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating certain activities.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 a.M., 8 f.m. प्लस 2 F.M. translators ) CBS Radio network which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins.
The network 's फ्लैगशिप स्टेशन is WBZ-FM /98.5- Boston, Massachusetts.
डेव goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob beers provides color commentary.
This article is परिचय the छोटी story.
For the कविता by सारा teasdale, see There Will Come Soft Rains.
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray Bradbury जिससे थी first published in the May 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
Later that same year the story was शामिल in bradbury 's the martian क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, हान चाइनीज is the largest ethnic group in the world.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region, which sits in an area between दक्षिण of the हिन्दू कुश in अफगानिस्तान and the Indus River in Pakistan.
They number around 50 लाख.
The Korowai people of Papua numbered बस around 3,000 लोगों, and were uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially defined category आधारित on आम संस्कृति or राष्ट्रीयता.
Ethnicity can, but does not have to, include common ancestry, appearance, cuisine, dressing style, heritage, history, भाषा or dialect, धर्म, प्रतीकों, परंपराओं, or अन्य cultural factor.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through आम विशेषताएँ which set the group apart from other groups.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since प्राचीन टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, बदलें और distribute solar energy.
Active सौर तकनीकों शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
ये लाभ are global.
Hence the additional costs of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the Greek alphabet called the Cumaean वर्णमाला, जिससे थी अपनाया और परिवर्धित by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further modified by the प्राचीन Romans to write the Latin language.
During the Middle Ages, the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages, direct वंशजों of लैटिन, as खूब as to सेल्टिक, germanic, बाल्टिक, and some Slavic languages.
With the age of colonialism and Christian evangelism, the Latin script was स्प्रेड विदेशी, और लागू to स्वदेशी अमरीकी, Australian, Austronesian, Austroasiatic, and African languages.
More recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) जब transcribing or बनाना written standards for non-European languages, such as the African reference alphabet.
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article ), or other alphabets based on the Latin script, which is the basic set of letters common to the विभिन्न alphabets descended from the classical Latin one, such as the English alphabet.
These latin-derived alphabets may छोड़ें letters, like the Rotokas alphabet, or add new letters, like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet.
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries, including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower मामला फ़ॉर्म जिससे किया नहीं मौजूद in the Classical period.
The assassination of संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष अब्राहम Lincoln took place on Good Friday, April 14, 1865, as the American Civil War was drawing to a close.
The assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया, सामान्य रॉबर्ट E. ली, surrendered to लेफ्टिनेंट General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first American अध्यक्ष to be assassinated, हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था been made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835.
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth, as part of a larger षड्यंत्र in a बोली to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators यहूद लुईस Powell and David Herold, who were assigned to kill Secretary of State William H. Seward, and George Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the शीर्ष तीन लोगों in the administration, Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government.
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American Cousin with उसके बीवी मरियम टॉड lincoln at घाट 's थिएटर in वॉशिंगटन, d.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
He died early the अगला morning.
The rest of the conspirators ' plot विफल ; पावेल तभी प्रबंधित to घाव seward, जबकि Atzerodt, Johnson 's would-be assassin, lost his nerve and fled Washington.
Add-on might mean:
plug-in ( कम्प्यूटिंग ), a piece of software which enhances another software application and usually can not be run independently
Browser extension, which modifies the interface and/or बर्ताव of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ), a piece of software that enhances and customizes mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web site which serves as a repository of add-ons लिये mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Peripheral, an optional computer hardware घटक कि significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory, a piece of hardware used in संयोजन साथ a वीडियो खेल कंसोल for playing video games
Club स्तर seating is a खास खण्ड of seating in modern sports stadiums.
The Club Level is usually located towards the मध्य of the स्टेज of seating sections, above the lower deck but below the upper deck.
They are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes, either सही ऊपर, सही नीचे, or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes.
Club स्तर seating is माना as उच्चतर class than sitting anywhere else in the arena, but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the Luxury Boxes, most क्लबों स्तर do नहीं रैप entirely around the arena.
Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an विस्तार of the मेज़ानाइन, जबकि अन्य दे रास्ता to निम्नतर class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable एक्सेप्शन to this is Emirates Stadium in London, which has a complete tier of club seating.
Club Levels allow fans multiple स्तर of entertainment.
Club Level seating is open to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed लक्ज़री बाक्स, जिससे देता अधिक of an बाहरी impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
Club Level seating is normally bought on a contract basis to allow लिये अधिकतम लाभ on the part of the stadium.
The Club Level provides प्रशंसक साथ खास access to an indoor part of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets.
ये क्षेत्रों हैं एयर conditioned और allow access to special restaurants, merchandise stands, and lounge areas of the stadium that are not otherwise available.
Concession stands and विक्रेता on the क्लबों स्तर भी often offer different menus than in other stands to give more of a special feel to the Club.
These areas are बंद बंद to the बाकी of the स्टेडियम, और they usually can only be accessed through the exclusive, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an Italian actress.
Loren is widely recognized as Italy 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध और सम्मानित अभिनेत्री.
She was the first actress of the talkie era to जीत an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये a non-english-speaking प्रदर्शन, for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women.
Her other awards include a Grammy Award, पाँच खास सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award.
In 1995 she received the सेसिल B. demille Award for lifetime achievements, one of many such awards.
Her films include : houseboat ( 1958 ), el सीआईडी ( 1961 ), कल, आज और कल ( 1963 ), Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ), and A Special Day ( 1977 ).
In later years वो रै appeared in American blockbusters such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she starred in रॉबर्ट altman 's prêt-à-porter, which earned her a Golden Globe nomination the same year.
She has also achieved critical और वाणिज्यिक success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ).
मौतों लिये self-inflicted injuries per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both religious and social pressures, and possibly completely unreported in some areas.
nevertheless, इससे reported मामले, certain trends are apparent.
Since the आंकड़ा is skewed, comparing suicide rates between nations is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves are not the कारण, लकिन may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South Africa is a मादा बोर्डिंग स्कूल संस्थापित in January 2007 and located in Henley on Klip near Meyerton, south of Johannesburg, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational and leadership अवसर लिये academically gifted लड़कियों from impoverished backgrounds.
Oprah Winfrey नेतृत्व Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider operating in 31 markets across the Caribbean, Central अमेरिका, और महासागरीय regions.
The company is owned by Irishman Denis O'Brien, is incorporated in बरमूडा, and based in Jamaica.
It has about 13 million बेतार उपयोक्ता.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El Salvador, Fiji, French Guiana, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guyana, Haiti, जमैका, मार्टीनिक, प्रकृति, पनामा, पापुआ नई गिनी, समोआ, संत Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a list of records of the फीफा संसार कप and its qualification matches.
Hospital Emergency Codes are प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल विश्वव्यापी to alert staff to various emergencies.
The use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to स्टाफ, जबकि preventing तनाव और दहशत among विज़िटर to the hospital.
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or printed on employee identification बैज लिये तैयार सन्दर्भ.
Back of a हॉस्पिटल id badge showing disaster codes.
Hospital emergency codes may denote अलग events at different hospitals, including nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at अधिक than एक सुविधा, इस may lead to confusion in emergencies, so uniform systems have been proposed.
The route of the Eifel aqueduct, साथ इसके औसत slope.
The Eifel Aqueduct was एक of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
The aqueduct, constructed in AD 80, carried water कुछ इससे the hilly eifel प्रदेश of कया is अभी जर्मनी to the ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spurs to अतिरिक्त springs are included, the length was.
The construction was लगभग entirely नीचे मैदान, और the flow of the water was produced entirely by gravity.
A few bridges, सहित एक up to in लंबाई, यहूद needed to pass over valleys.
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts, the Eifel जलसेतु थी specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( Br.E. disulphide bond ) is a covalent बंध, usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups.
The linkage is also called an SS-bond or disulfide सेतु.
The overall कनेक्टिविटी is therefore R-S-S-R.
the शब्दावली is widely used in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the कनेक्शन is a persulfide, in सादृश्य to इसके congener, परऑक्साइड ( r-o-o-r ), but this terminology is obscure and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal depiction of disulfide बंध गठन as an oxidation.
Westminster ऐबी is प्रयुक्त लिये the coronation of British monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it, has been dominated, for over 1,400 सालो, by various forms of Christianity.
According to some surveys, a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity, although regular church attendance has fallen dramatically चूंकि the मध्य of the 20th सदी, और आव्रजन और जनसांख्यिकी change have contributed to the growth of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are recorded by regular surveys, the four major ones being the UK Census, the Labour Force सर्वेक्षण, the अंग्रेजों सोशल attitudes सर्वेक्षण और the यूरोपीय सोशल Survey.
According to the 2001 UK census, Christianity is the major religion, followed by islam, हिंदुत्व, sikhism, judaism और Buddhism in terms of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals साथ नाममात्र or no धार्मिक संबद्धों रै led टीकाकारों to variously describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian society.
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707, and consequently most of the largest religious groups do not have uk-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures लिये the व्यक्तिगत देशों of the संयुक्त Kingdom, others may have a single structure covering England and Wales or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland in 1921, most major religious groups in Northern Ireland are संगठित on an all-ireland basis.
The 1967 Newark दंगे यहूद a प्रमुख सिविल disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark, New Jersey between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The छह दिनों of rioting, लूटने, and destruction left 26 dead and hundreds injured.
In United States college athletics, redshirt is a delay or बर्खास्तगी of an खिलाड़ी 's भागीदारी in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four सीज़न, a क्रमांक निकला इससे the चार सालो of अकादमिक classes that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university.
however, a छात्र खिलाड़ी may be offered the अवसर to redshirt लिये up to दो सालो, जिससे allows the खिलाड़ी to स्प्रेड those चार सालो of पात्रता over पाँच, or sometimes छह सालो.
In a redshirt year, a छात्र खिलाड़ी may attend वर्ग at the college or university, practice with an athletic team, and dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game.
Using this mechanism, a student athlete has up to five अकादमिक सालो to उपयोग the चार years of eligibility, thus becoming a fifth-year senior.
The term is used as a क्रिया, संज्ञा, और adjective.
For example, a coach may choose to redshirt a player who is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of this is a `` सच्चा freshman. ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, और the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were दोनो reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the राष्ट्र involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous दशकों यहूद invoked.
भीतर सप्ताह, the प्रमुख शक्तियां were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया और the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove वापस the germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
the युद्ध ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
the यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states अंतर्गत the marxist–leninist or Maoist definition - that is to say, `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period marked the greatest territorial extent of कम्युनिस्ट states.
A कम्युनिस्ट राज्य is a राज्य where the means of production are collectively owned by the society.
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as तानाशाही of the proletariat by इसके proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as पारिभाषित by दोनो माक्र्सवादी और anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this परिप्रेक्ष्य, the term Marxist-Leninist state is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed जरुरी to further the रूचि of the working क्लास ; आज, a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can भी, for instance, refer to contemporary China and Vietnam, where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy.
According to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a tool in the हैंड्स of the सत्ताधारी क्लास, which in a socialist society is the working class, so a socialist state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
In अभ्यास, कम्युनिस्ट राज्य do नहीं actually refer to themselves as such.
They do इस नहीं to भेस the फैक्ट कि the ruling party is communist, but rather because they do not consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally identify themselves as socialist राज्य or workers ' states.
The primary goal of these states, which also explains their official name, is to guide their respective countries in the प्रक्रम of भवन समाजवादी, ultimately अग्रणी to communism.
Communist states may have several legal political parties, but the communist party is usually granted a special or dominant भूमिका in सरकारी, प्रायः by statute or under the constitution.
नतीजतन, the संस्थानों of the state and of the communist party become intimately entwined, such as in the development of parallel institutions.
In the 20th century, most communist राज्य अपनाया नियोजित economies.
However, there यहूद अपवाद : the सोवियत संघ दौरान the 1920s और लेट 1980s और Yugoslavia after World War II allowed limited markets and a degree of worker self-management, while China, Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st century, China and वियतनाम have अनुमत a mixed economy to develop.
The fundamental concepts of कम्युनिस्ट राज्य प्रायः diverge इससे the original socio-economic ideologies from which they develop.
As a result, many adherents of these ideologies often oppose the political systems commonly संबद्ध साथ ये राज्य.
For example, dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist states of the 20th सदी, claiming either that they had nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption.
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of all time, with a total of 22 medals.
फेल्प्स भी holds the all-time रिकॉर्ड लिये ओलम्पिक सुनहरा medals ( 18, double the second highest record holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ), and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, Phelps took the record for the most first-place finishes at any single Olympic Games.
Five of those victories were in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम, tying the single Games record.
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Phelps won four golds and two silver medals, making him the most कामयाब खिलाड़ी of the खेल लिये the तीसरा ओलंपिक in a row.
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter तितली और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley.
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition, 57 gold, 11 silver, and three कांस्य spanning the ओलंपिक, the संसार, और the पण प्रशांत championships.
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking performances have earned him the World Swimmer of the Year Award सात टाइम्स और अमरीकी तैराक of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
His unprecedented ओलम्पिक कामयाबी in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award.
After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Phelps started the Michael Phelps न्यास, which focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with उसके न्यास बाद the 2012 Olympics, which he has said will be his last.
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and electronics company with its headquarters in Beijing, China and Morrisville, North Carolina और इसके पंजीकृत दफ्तर in हांग Kong, China.
Its products include personal computers, tablet computers, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, सर्वर, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक भंडार devices, IT management software and smart televisions.
लेनोवो is the संसार 's second-largest PC vendor by 2012 unit sales.
It markets the ThinkPad line of कोपी कंप्यूटर and the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
Lenovo has operations in अधिक than 60 देशों and sells its products in around 160 countries.
Lenovo was संस्थापित in बीजिंग in 1984 और incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name, Legend.
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index.
Slug is a common name for an जाहिर shell-less स्थलीय gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the आम नाम of कोई gastropod mollusc कि रै no shell, has a very reduced shell, or has only a small internal shell.
( This is in contrast to the common name `` घोंघा ``, जिससे is लागू to gastropods कि have a coiled shell that is large enough that the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it. )
Slugs मौजूद on जमीन और in the समुद्र, और वहीँ is even one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( like many in the family Urocyclidae ), are known as semislugs.
The various taxonomic families of slugs form part of several quite different evolutionary lineages which also include snails.
Thus, for example, the various families of land slugs are नहीं बहुत closely सम्बन्धित to one another, despite a superficial similarity in the overall body form.
The shell-less condition has arisen many times independently during the विकासवादी पास्ट, और यूँ the श्रेणी `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the आतंरिक अंगों ) दौरान विकास.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this रोटेशन, लकिन externally the लाशें of जमीन slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical, except for the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the right hand side.
The soft, slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs हैं confined to नम environments और जरूर रिट्रीट to नम hiding places when the weather is dry.
The subsequent सूचना in इस article applies to land slugs.
is a Latin word that अर्थात् `` यूँ '' or, in writing, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
sic may also refer to:
sic, cluj, a commune in Romania
sic, the क्षेत्रीय code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern hardcore/thrash metal band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American बैंड slipknot on the एल्बम Slipknot
SIC, the आरंभिक of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may स्टैंड for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società इटालियाना cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली for classifying industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानक औद्योगिक Classification a UN system for economic activities
Shetland आइलैंड्स परिषद
the Swiss Interbank Clearing प्रणाली
San Isidro क्लबों, an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a कमेटी समर्पित to the निर्वचन of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति grid in Chile
sociedade independente de comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea आइल नगर, नई जर्सी, a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode, a विधि of आपरेशन in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the मलेशियाई गोलाकार of सूत्र 1
Shanghai अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a मोटर racing venue in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional कंप्यूटर, a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons idées couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a दो साल जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College, riverview, a जेसुइट स्कूल in सिडनी, Australia
Imperial Standard of नेपोलियन I
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter चरण of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति और इसके संबद्ध युद्धों in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he was सम्राट of the French from 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the Napoleonic Code, has been a major influence on many civil law jurisdictions worldwide, but he is best remembered for his role in the wars led विरूद्ध फ़्रांस by a श्रेणी of coalitions, the so-called Napoleonic Wars.
He established hegemony over most of continental यूरोपीय और sought to स्प्रेड the आदर्शों of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to his success in these wars, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as one of the greatest military commanders of all time, and his campaigns are studied at सैन्य academies worldwide.
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in corsica in a परिवार of प्रतिष्ठित इतालवी ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He trained as an artillery अधिकारी in मेनलैंड फ़्रांस.
He rose to prominence under the French पहला गणतंत्र और led कामयाब अभियान विरूद्ध the First and Second Coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a successful आक्रमण of the Italian peninsula.
In 1799, he staged a तख्तापलट d'état और संस्थापित खुद as पहला कौंसुल ; पाँच सालो later the French Senate proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first दशक of the 19th सदी, the फ्रेंच साम्राज्य under Napoleon engaged in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power.
After a streak of victories, France secured a dominant position in continental Europe, and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the गठन of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends and family members to rule other European countries as French client states.
The Peninsular War and 1812 French invasion of Russia marked turning अंक in नेपोलियन 's fortunes.
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in the campaign and never fully recovered.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded France, मजबूर नेपोलियन to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba.
Less than a year later, he फरार एल्बा और लौटे to शक्ति, लकिन was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815.
Napoleon खर्च the last six years of his life in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of पेट कर्कट, लकिन वहीँ रै महरूम कुछ बहस परिचय the cause of his death, as some scholars have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning.
This is a chronological listing of the United राज्य सीनेटरों from Pennsylvania.
United राज्य सीनेटरों हैं popularly elected, for a six-year term, beginning January 3.
Elections are held the first मंगलवार बाद नवम्बर 1.
Before 1914, they were chosen by the Pennsylvania General Assembly, and before 1935, उनके शर्तें began कूच 4.
The South Africa national rugby union team ( known as the springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union.
They compete in the annual Rugby Championship, साथ साथ southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and New Zealand.
They have won this championship on three occasions in sixteen years.
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International Rugby Board, and were named 2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus World खेल पुरस्कार.
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup प्रतियोगिता, the springboks किया नहीं compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
The team made its World Cup debut in 1995, जब the newly लोकतांत्रिक South Africa hosted the tournament.
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the final, which is now remembered as one of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history, and a watershed moment in the post-apartheid nation-building process.
South Africa regained their title as champions 12 years later, when they defeated इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the 2007 final.
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to first प्लेस in the आईआरबी संसार rankings, a स्थिति they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in ग्रीन and gold jerseys, and their emblems are the Springbok and the Protea.
The side has been playing international rugby चूंकि 1891, जब a अंग्रेजों Isles side toured the nation, playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July.
South Africa was coached by Jake White, जो led the boks to the 2007 संसार कप शीर्षक, announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011, following a 11–9 शिकस्त to Australia in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final, who then stated he would not be signing a new deal.
The previous कप्तान थी जॉन smit, जो पहले he रिटायर्ड in 2011 played hooker for most of his career, although he has also been a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to Smit being unavailable for the November 2010 परीक्षण बाद सर्जरी, ताला विक्टर Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour.
The current captain is Jean de villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), was लड़ा जुलाई 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
It was the battle with the largest क्रमांक of हताहत in the अमरीकी Civil War and is often described as the war 's turning point.
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. ली 's फौज of Northern Virginia, ending Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863, Lee led his army through the Shenandoah Valley to शुरू उसके दूसरी आक्रमण of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With his army in high आत्माओं, ली intended to शिफ़्ट the फ़ोकस of the गर्मियाँ campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their prosecution of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or even Philadelphia.
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his army in pursuit, लकिन थी सुकून बस तीन दिनों पहले the battle and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at gettysburg on जुलाई 1, 1863, as ली urgently concentrated his forces there, his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union प्यादे प्रभाग अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जॉन buford, and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry.
However, two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north, collapsing the hastily विकसित संघ लाइनों, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south.
On the second day of बैटल, सबसे of दोनो armies had assembled.
The Union line was laid out in a रक्षात्मक गठन resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union left flank, and fierce fighting raged at छोटी गोलाकार शीर्ष, the wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
On the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill.
All across the battlefield, despite significant losses, the संघ defenders आयोजित उनके lines.
On the third day of battle, July 3, fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill, and cavalry battles raged to the east and दक्षिण, लकिन the प्रमुख इवेंट थी a नाटकीय infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett 's Charge.
The चार्ज थी repulsed by Union rifle and artillery fire, at great losses to the Confederate army.
Lee led his army on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from both armies were casualties in the three-day बैटल.
That November, President Lincoln used the dedication ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery to honor the fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the युद्ध in उसके ऐतिहासिक Gettysburg Address.
An academic discipline, or field of study, is a शाखा of ज्ञान कि is taught and researched at the college or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in part ), and recognized by the academic journals in which research is published, and the सीखे समाजों और अकादमिक विभाग or faculties to which their practitioners belong.
However, there exists no formal criteria for when शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम और scholarly journals form an academic discipline.
A huge difference exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world, have a long history, and have a well स्थापित नियत of जर्नल्स और सम्मेलनों, और, on the अन्य हाथ, सुझाव for new fields supported only by few universities and publications.
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or शाखाओं, और the distinguishing lines between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous.
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा.
PHP is now संस्थापित on अधिक than 244 million websites and 2.1 million web servers.
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference क्रियान्वयन of पीएचपी is now produced by The PHP Group.
While PHP originally stood for निजी घर पेज, it अभी stands for PHP : Hypertext Preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module which generates the resulting web page : PHP कमांड can be अंतःस्थापित सीधे into an एचटीएमएल सोर्स दस्तावेज़ बल्कि than कॉलिंग an external file to process data.
it रै भी विकसित to शामिल a command-line इंटरफ़ेस काबिलियत and can be used in standalone graphical applications.
PHP is free software released under the PHP License, which is असंगत साथ the ग्नू सामान्य पब्लिक अनुज्ञा ( जीपीएल ) due to प्रतिबंध on the usage of the term PHP.
PHP can be deployed on most web सर्वर और भी as a स्टैंडअलोन shell on almost every operating system and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his initials JFK, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the United States, serving from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the दक्षिण प्रशांत, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. Senate इससे 1953 जबतक 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the दफ्तर, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, कैनेडी is the only non- Protestant president, and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events दौरान उसके प्रेसिडेंसी शामिल the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the Space Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of सैन्य advisers, खास operation forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program which थी implemented by the दक्षिण वियतनामी सरकारी.
It involved certain मजबूर relocation, गाँव internment, और पृथक्करण of rural South Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज साथ the अपराधों, लकिन he थी shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The FBI and the वारेन Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
however, the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in उनके छानबीन, the कैनेडी हत्या : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a congressional छानबीन कि lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in जिससे he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the general public, reports of कैनेडी 's philandering have garnered much दबायें.
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by King, Jerry leiber, और माइक stoller, प्रेरित by the आध्यात्मिक `` रब स्टैंड by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
वहीँ have महरूम over 400 recorded versions of the song.
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D. Ehrhart, shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering इससे a बवंडर of political change.
A metaphor is a figure of speech that describes a subject by asserting that it is, on कुछ पाइंट of तुलना, the वही as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely सम्बन्धित to अन्य rhetorical आंकड़े of speech that achieve their effects via association, comparison or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
In simpler terms, a metaphor compares two objects or things without using the शब्द `` जैसे '' or `` as ''.
One of the सबसे prominent उदाहरण of a रूपक in अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य is the All the world 's a stage monologue from As You Like It :
सब the world 's a stage,
And all the men and women merely खिलाड़ी ;
They have their exits और their entrances ; — William Shakespeare, As You Like It, 2/7
This quote is a metaphor because the world is not literally a stage.
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage, शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक of तुलना between the संसार and a stage to convey an understanding about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it.
Mount Fuji, from the Thirty-six Views of Mount फुजी, color woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt वैन rijn, Self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco Goya, There is No One to सहायता उन्हें, आपदाओं of युद्ध श्रेणी, aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton, La raison probante ( the cogent कारण ), woodcut इससे the series Intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the प्रक्रम of making artworks by printing, normally on paper.
printmaking normally covers only the process of creating prints with an element of originality, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the प्रक्रम is सक्षम of producing multiples of the same piece, which is called a print.
Each print produced is not considered a `` copy '' लकिन rather is considered an `` original ''.
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process, and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work but rather is often a unique image designed इससे the प्रारंभ to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
A छपाई may be ज्ञात as an impression.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is नहीं चुनी only for its ability to produce multiple impressions, but rather for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
Prints are created by transferring स्याही इससे a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other material.
Common types of matrices include : metal plates, usually तांबे or जस्ता, or पॉलिमर प्लेटों लिये नक्काशी or etching ; स्टोन, aluminum, or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics हैं प्रयुक्त for the screenprinting process.
Other types of matrix substrates और related processes are discussed below.
Multiple impressions printed from the same matrix form an edition.
Since the late 19th century, artists have generally signed individual impressions from an संस्करण and often number the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may also be printed in book रूप, ऐसे as illustrated books or artist 's books.
il divo is an अंग्रेज़ी multinational operatic pop vocal group created by music manager, executive, and reality TV star Simon Cowell.
Formed in the United Kingdom, they are also signed to Cowell 's रिकार्ड लेबल, syco म्यूज़िक.
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard, स्पेनी baritone कार्लोस marín, अमरीकी tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, they have sold more than 26 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
Su-15, one of the principal Soviet एयर रक्षा interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to prevent मिशन of दुश्मन aircraft, particularly bombers and reconnaissance aircraft, and destroy them, relying usually on great speed and powerful armament.
Being used since the First World War, after the लेट 1960s, interceptors became less important due to shifting from bombers to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare.
A वियतनामी अमरीकी ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent.
They make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải Ngoại ) और हैं the fourth-largest एशियाई American group.
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the United राज्य प्रारंभ बाद 1975, after the end of the Vietnam War.
Early immigrants were refugee boat people fleeing persecution or poverty.
Forced to flee from their मातृभूमि और प्रायः thrust into ग़रीब शहरी पड़ोस, ये newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time.
अधिक than साठ प्रतिशत of Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California, Texas, Washington, Florida, and Virginia.
Front page of the U.S. Armed शक्तियां समाचारपत्र, सितारों और धारियाँ, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in उसके führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या साथ उसे by ingesting cyanide.
That दोपहर, in accordance साथ हिटलर 's prior निर्देश, उनके remains were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit, doused in petrol and set alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker.
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were recovered and interred in successive स्थितियाँ जबतक 1970 जब वे were again exhumed, cremated and the ashes scattered.
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, जबकि biting bas on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary historians have rejected these accounts as being either Soviet propaganda or an attempted सुलह in अनुक्रम to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the देह दिखाया लक्षण of having महरूम शॉट through the मुँह, but this has been proven unlikely.
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of कपाल and jaw fragments which were recovered.
In 2009, DNA tests were performed on a skull Soviet officials था long believed to be Hitler 's.
The tests revealed that the skull was actually कि of a स्त्री less than 40 years old.
स्थान of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and सबसे lax और permissive in the United States.
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for its largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol विनियमन, in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू laws of some of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or nf, commonly ज्ञात as flesh-eating बीमारी or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues, easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue.
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having वृहद रिस्क of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is usually treated immediately with high doses of intravenous एंटीबायोटिक.
Type I describes a polymicrobial संक्रमण, whereas प्रकार ii describes a monomicrobial infection.
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., समूह a streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
ऐसे infections हैं अधिक संभावित to occur in people with compromised immune systems.
Historically, Group A streptococcus made up most मामले of प्रकार ii infections.
However, चूंकि as जल्दी as 2001, another गंभीर रूप of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing frequency, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory दवाएँ और nf, हालांकि the प्रमाण of the link was said to be weak because of a small number of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se.
World War II ( WWII or ww2 ), भी ज्ञात as the Second World War, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945.
It involved the vast majority of the world 's राष्ट्र —including सब of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis.
It was the सबसे फैली युद्ध in इतिहास, with more than 100 million people serving in military units from over 30 different countries.
In a state of `` total war ``, the major participants placed their entire economic, industrial, and scientific सामर्थ्य at the सेवा of the युद्ध प्रयत्न, erasing the भेद between civilian and military resources.
चिह्नित by द्रव्यमान मौतों of नागरिकों, सहित the Holocaust and the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These deaths make World युद्ध ii by दूर the deadliest conflict in human history.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937, but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain.
From late 1939 to early 1941, in a श्रेणी of अभियान और treaties, जर्मनी formed the Axis alliance with Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the सोवियत संघ partitioned और annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
The United Kingdom and the other members of the British Commonwealth were the तभी प्रमुख Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis, with battles taking place in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest land थिएटर of युद्ध in इतिहास, जिससे tied bas the major part of the Axis ' military forces for the rest of the war.
In December 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the United States and European territories in the प्रशांत समंदर, और जल्दी conquered much of the Western Pacific.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and, decisively, at stalingrad.
In 1943, with a series of German defeats in Eastern Europe, the Allied invasion of Italy, and American victories in the Pacific, the Axis lost the initiative और undertook रणनीतिक रिट्रीट on सब fronts.
In 1944, the पश्चिमी allies invaded फ़्रांस, जबकि the सोवियत Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies.
During 1944 and 1945 the United States defeated the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by सोवियत और पॉलिश सैनिकों और the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the United राज्य dropped परमाणु बम on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent, and the Soviet Union having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria, जापानी surrendered on 15 अगस्त 1945, समाप्ति the युद्ध in एशिया and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis.
World War II altered the political alignment and social structure of the world.
The United Nations ( UN ) was established to foster international सहयोग और prevent भविष्य conflicts.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States, the Soviet Union, चीन, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और france—became the स्थाई सदस्यों of the United Nations Security Council.
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage for the Cold War, जिससे lasted लिये the अगला 46 years.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great powers प्रारंभ to मनाही, जबकि the decolonisation of एशिया and Africa began.
Most देशों जिनकी उद्योग had been damaged moved towards economic recovery.
Political integration, especially in यूरोपीय, उभरा as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold War.
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible form of enterprise that मिश्रणों तत्व of साझेदारी और corporate structures.
Note than an llc is नहीं a निगम, और calling an LLC a corporation is technically incorrect.
An LLC is a विधिक रूप of कम्पनी कि provides limited liability to its owners in the vast majority of United States jurisdictions.
LLCs do not need to be व्यवस्थित लिये profit.
पाँच k-cups
The inside of a used K-Cup, with the top foil and the प्रयुक्त coffee grounds removed.
This shows the filter अंदर the k-cup.
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other single cup brewing systems to काढ़ा a कप of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
Each K-Cup is a प्लास्टिक संग्राहक साथ a coffee filter inside.
Ground coffee beans are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight साथ a संयोजन प्लास्टिक and foil lid.
When the K-Cup is लगाई in a keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain कॉफी Roasters, Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans, Timothy 's World Coffee, Van Houtte, Caribou Coffee, Celestial Seasonings, Bigelow Tea Company, Twinings, Tully 's, Coffee People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त in सितंबर 2012.
Keurig holds at least one additional, still-active us पेटेंट और another patent application, detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design.
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in La chaux-de-fonds, स्विट्ज़रलैंड.
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities, automatic day, date, month, and moon phase display
A modern Seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ).
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 क्षेत्रफल रेडियो नियंत्रित reception ( North America, Europe, China, Japan ).
A chronograph is a विशिष्ट प्रकार of देखें कि is प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch combined with a display watch.
A basic chronograph has an स्वतंत्र स्वीप दूसरी हाथ ; it can be started, stopped, and returned to zero by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis Moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional पीसीआई ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus, but in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of कोई particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus, और हैं आबंटित addresses in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, called a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus थी पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles, where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently been adopted for other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, most motherboards हैं स्टिल made with one or more PCI slots, which are sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ), विद्युत विशेषताएँ, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased from the पीसीआई खास ब्याज Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards, sound cards, modems, अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, until growing bandwidth आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक serial bus and PCI Express versions.
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7, 1957 ) is an American contemporary Christian musician, who has charted primarily in the समकालीन ईसाई और occasionally in the mainstream charts.
His biggest कामयाबी in मुख्यधारा म्यूज़िक थी in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award विजेता, और रै अर्जित 40 dove Awards.
Over the course of his career, he sold more than 13 million albums and recorded 29 No. 1 Hit songs, चौदह सुनहरा एल्बम, और पाँच प्लेटिनम albums.
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named one of People पत्रिका 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों ''.
An American poster from the World War II -era कि थी प्रयुक्त to inform people about what they should do if they suspect sabotage.
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion, रुकावट, disruption, or विनाश.
In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally निर्देशित at causing some change in workplace conditions.
One who engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs try to छिपाते उनके पहचान क्युकी of the consequences of their actions.
For example, whereas an पर्यावरणीय pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of sabotage, it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators known.
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private, independent college with an Evangelical Christian basis that focuses on teaching शास्त्रीय उदार कला और सरकारी, स्तिथ in purcellville, Virginia, United States.
Patrick Henry is known for its conservative evangelical ईसाई focus.
As of April 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the transnational संघ of ईसाई कॉलेजों and Schools, a national faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense Association, and now serves as the headquarters for the संगठन, साथ जिससे it is स्टिल closely connected.
The history of television comprises the work of numerous engineers and आविष्कारक in अनेक देशों over many decades.
The earliest प्रस्ताव थी in 1908, in a paper by A. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the use of cathode rays.
The first practical demonstrations of television, however, were developed using electromechanical विधि to scan, transmit, and reproduce an image.
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected, electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic systems in nearly all applications.
l'idéal cinéma - ज़ाक tati at aniche खोली November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A सिनेमा in Australia
A typical multiplex ( AMC सैर 16 in वुडलैंड पहाड़ियाँ, Los Angeles, U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a सिनेमा, फिल्म हाउस, फिल्मी house, film theater or picture house ) is a venue, usually a building, for viewing films.
Most but not all movie थिएटर हैं commercial operations catering to the general public, who attend by purchasing a ticket.
The movie is प्रक्षिप्त साथ a movie projector onto a large projection screen at the front of the auditorium.
सबसे फिल्म थिएटर हैं अभी equipped for digital cinema projection, removing the need to create and transport a physical film print.
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य रूट 41, निकट Creston.
A motorcycle club is a group of individuals whose primary interest and activities involve मोटरसाइकिल.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by at least three प्रजाति of जीवाणु belonging to the genus borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the प्रमुख कारण of lyme disease in North America, whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European cases.
The disease is नामित बाद the कस्बों of Lyme and Old Lyme, Connecticut, USA, where a number of cases were identified in 1975.
Although Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981, जब B. burgdorferi थी पहचाना by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne बीमारी in the उत्तरी Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks belonging to a few प्रजाति of the genus ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may include fever, headache, fatigue, depression, and a characteristic गोलाकार skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ).
Left अनुपचारित, बाद symptoms may involve the joints, heart, and central nervous system.
in सबसे मामले, the संक्रमण और इसके लक्षण are eliminated by antibiotics, especially if the illness is treated early.
Delayed or inadequate treatment can lead to more serious symptoms, which can be disabling और मुश्किल to दावत.
Penises of minke whales on display at the आइसलैंडिक Phallological Museum
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a सामान्य पद लिये the organs with which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, लकिन males do नहीं भालू a शिश्न in प्रत्येक एनिमल प्रजाति, और in those species in which the male does bear a so-called penis, the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous.
For example, the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the शिश्न of a male insect or barnacle.
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, but not to all ; for उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of सबसे cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and male spiders use their pedipalps.
In most species of animals in which there is an अंग कि might reasonably be वर्णित as a शिश्न, it रै no प्रमुख फलन अन्य than intromission, or at तनिक conveying the sperm to the female, but in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra, which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires.
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music publishing company that is जिम्मेदार लिये हुनर बालचर और overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters.
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is generally considered under the purview of, and responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of अलहदा in इम्पीरियल इकाई और u.S. प्रथागत इकाई equal to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 rods, or 10 chains.
The exact मान of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries.
पाँच furlongs हैं approximately 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ).
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the परिधि of the धरती ( साथ the ग्रेट वृत्त coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through Paris ), the circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 lithium बटन कोशिका battery
Lithium 9 volt, AA, & aaa आकार
Lithium batteries are disposable ( primary ) batteries that have lithium मेटल or लिथियम यौगिकों as an धनाग्र.
वे स्टैंड अलावा इससे अन्य बैटरी in their high charge density ( long life ) and high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used, lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or क्षारीय battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices.
रेमंड `` रे '' चार्ल्स जोकर lamontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio albums, Trouble, Till the सूर्य turns ब्लैक, गपशप in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise.
He was born in New Hampshire and was inspired to create music बाद सुनना an एल्बम by स्टीफन Stills.
Critics have compared lamontagne 's म्यूज़िक to that of The Band, Van Morrison, Nick Drake, and Tim Buckley.
He जीवनदान in मैसाचुसेट्स with his wife and two children.
When the Wind blows is a अनोखा by James Patterson.
It is the precursor to The Lake House और प्रेरित the अधिकतम सवारी श्रेणी.
The novel is फिलहाल set to be adapted into a movie.
The Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स were founded in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has had several logos while wearing virtually the same वर्दी over the सालो, साथ हल्का परिवर्तन made to give the uniforms an updated look.
The टोली रंगों, वर्दी, and logo are often ranked as being among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking सेवा, जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was संस्थापित in फ़रवरी 2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various other universities पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook अभी allows कोई उपयोक्ता जो घोषित themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site.
Users जरूर पंजीकरण पहले using the साईट, बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a personal profile, add other users as friends, and exchange messages, including automatic notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or कॉलेज, or अन्य characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of September 2012, फेसबुक रै over एक billion active users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there are 7.5 million children under 13 with खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10, violating the साईट 's शर्तें of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking सेवा by विश्वव्यापी मासिक active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes, याद our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United राज्य, resulting in विशाल amounts of समय खोया and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. visitors in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions, with the site losing 7 लाख क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता in the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on फ़रवरी 1, 2012, और थी headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the नैस्डैक on may 18, 2012.
Erwin योहानेस eugen ख़बरों ( 15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944 ), popularly known as The Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs, ), was a German Field Marshal of World War II.
He earned the respect of both उसके अपना सैनिकों और the enemies he fought.
Rommel थी a अत्यधिक decorated officer in World War I and was awarded the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front.
In World War II, he further distinguished himself as the कमांडर of the 7th panzer प्रभाग दौरान the 1940 invasion of France.
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign स्थापित उसे as एक of the सबसे समर्थ कमांडरों of the युद्ध, और अर्जित him the appellation of the Desert Fox.
He is regarded as one of the most skilled commanders of मरुस्थल warfare in the conflict.
He later commanded the German forces opposing the अलाइड cross-channel invasion in Normandy.
His assignments never took उसे to the Eastern Front.
Rommel is regarded as having been a humane और पेशेवर officer.
His Afrika Korps was never accused of युद्ध अपराधों, और सैनिको captured दौरान his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill Jewish soldiers, civilians and captured कमांडो यहूद ignored.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate एडोल्फ Hitler.
Since Rommel was a national hero, Hitler desired to eliminate उसे चुपचाप.
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill, in return for assurances that Rommel 's परिवार होता नहीं be persecuted following his death.
Stained कांच प्रतिनिधित्व of the Holy Spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors, later elaborated by पाँच बौद्धिक virtues और चार अन्य समूह of नैतिक characteristics.
They are : wisdom, समझना, अचरज and awe ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, knowledge, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
The Earth Day Flag, the नवीनतम प्रस्ताव of John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth दिन is an सालाना इवेंट, मनाये on April 22, on which events are held worldwide to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
It was first celebrated in 1970, and is now coordinated globally by the Earth दिन संजाल, और मनाये in more than 192 countries each year.
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San Francisco, the date proposed was March 21, 1970, the first day of spring in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध.
This day of nature 's equipoise was later sanctioned in a उदघोषणा हस्ताक्षरित by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations.
A month later a separate Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in पहला आयोजित on अप्रैल 22, 1970.
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom पुरस्कार in recognition of his work.
While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, who was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it अंतरराष्ट्रीय in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
numerous समुदायों celebrate Earth Week, an entire week of activities focused on environmental issues.
Iodine is a chemical element with प्रतीक i और atomic number 53.
The name is from Greek ioeidēs, अर्थ बैंगनी or जामुनी, due to the color of elemental iodine vapor.
Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition, और industrially in the उत्पादन of acetic acid and certain polymers.
Iodine 's अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची परमाणु क्रमांक, कम toxicity, and ease of attachment to organic compounds have made it a part of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine.
आयोडीन रै तभी one stable isotope.
A number of आयोडीन radioisotopes हैं also used in medical applications.
Iodine is found on Earth मुख्यतः as the अत्यधिक water-soluble आयोडाइड आयन, i−, which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
Like the other halogens, free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic molecule I2, and then only momentarily after being oxidized इससे आयोडाइड by an oxidant like free oxygen.
In the universe and on Earth, iodine 's ऊँची परमाणु क्रमांक makes it a relatively rare element.
However, इसके उपस्थिति in समंदर water has given it a role in biology.
It is the अधिकतम अनिवार्य तत्व utilized widely by जीवन in biological कृत्यों ( only tungsten, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in many soils, due to initial कम प्रचुरता as a crust-element, and also leaching of soluble iodide by rainwater, has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations.
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion people and is the leading preventable कारण of बौद्धिक disabilities.
Iodine is required by उच्चतर पशु, जिससे उपयोग it to synthesize thyroid hormones, which contain the element.
Because of this function, radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in the thyroid gland साथ साथ nonradioactive आयोडीन.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a high परिवर्द्धन उत्पाद उपज, concentrates in the thyroid, but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the अधिनियम of attempting to influence decisions made by officials in the government, most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is done by many different types of लोगों और व्यवस्थित समूह, सहित individuals in the निजी सेक्टर, corporations, fellow legislators or government officials, or advocacy groups ( interest groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, meaning a voter or bloc of voters within his or her electoral district, or नहीं ; वे may engage in lobbying as a कारोबार, or नहीं.
Professional lobbyists are people whose कारोबार is trying to influence विधान on behalf of a group or individual who hires them.
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their normal job ( for instance, a CEO meeting with a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a प्रोजेक्ट महत्वपूर्ण to his/her कम्पनी, or an activist बैठक साथ his/her विधायक in an unpaid क्षमता ).
Governments often define और विनियमित व्यवस्थित group lobbying that has become influential.
the आचार and morality of lobbying are.
lobbying is प्रायः बोला of साथ अवमानना, जब the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting the law ( twisting it away from fairness ) in order to serve their own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended against others ' corruption, or even simply making sure that minority interests are fairly defended विरूद्ध mere जुल्म of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade संघ of स्वास्थ्य बीमे कंपनियाँ, may लॉबी a विधानमंडल in order to counteract the influence of tobacco companies, in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ).
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' और जिससे ones हैं `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which lobbyists or their clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence legislation is a शक्ति संघर्ष.
As in other forms of power struggle, such as war or law enforcement, motives range इससे to self-defense to लड़ लिये इंसाफ, और the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of अपना प्रेम guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock, hard rock and psychedelic rock, combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics, Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals, Jack Bruce 's voice and prominent बास playing और Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The group 's third एल्बम, पहियों of आग, was the world 's first platinum-selling double album.
Cream are widely regarded as होने the संसार 's पहला successful supergroup.
In their career, they sold over 15 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful ``, and modern ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` born अंतर्गत a ख़राब चिह्न ``, as खूब as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew ``, `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` Sunshine of Your Love `` ( US, number 5 ), `` White Room `` ( US, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), and `` बैज `` ( uk, क्रमांक 18 ).
Cream made a significant impact on the लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक of the time, and, along with Jimi Hendrix, and Terry Kath of Chicago, popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a heavy yet technically निपुण musical थीम कि foreshadowed and influenced the emergence of British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
The band 's सजीव प्रदर्शन बहकावे progressive rock acts such as Rush.
Cream were inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of Fame in 1993.
They were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's lists of the `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय ''.
They were also ranked number 16 on vh1 's `` 100 महानतम Artists of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters, and starring Ricki Lake, Sonny Bono, Debbie Harry, Michael St. Gerard, Shawn थॉम्पसन, colleen fitzpatrick, जेरी stiller, और in उसके पिछला फिल्मी भूमिका, दैवी.
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from Waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended audience.
In fact, Hairsprays pg is the mildest दरजा a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the फिल्मी घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था ट्रेसी turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation.
Hairspray was only a moderate कामयाबी upon its initial theatrical release, earning a modest gross of $ 8 million.
However, it प्रबंधित to आकर्षित a larger दर्शक on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic.
Most आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी, although some were displeased with the overall campiness.
in 2002, the फिल्मी थी adapted into a ब्रॉडवे musical of the same name, which won eight Tony Awards, including Best Musical in 2003.
A second film version of Hairspray, an adaptation of the stage musical, was also released by New Line Cinema in 2007, जिससे शामिल अनेक परिवर्तन of scripted वस्तुएं इससे the असली.
The film also ranks # 444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम name, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the Catholic गिरिजाघर considers itself the एक सच्चा गिरिजाघर and the Apostolic See, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any formal denominational ढांचा, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category.
Some groups हैं विशाल ( e.g. catholics, lutherans, anglicans or Baptists ), while others are just a few small churches, and in most cases the relative size is not evident in this list.
Modern movements such as fundamentalist christianity, pietism, evangelicalism, pentecostalism और the पवित्रता movement sometimes cross denominational lines, or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups, ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches, for example ).
Such subtleties and complexities हैं नहीं clearly depicted here.
Major विभाजन भीतर Christianity.
Note : This is not a पूरा सूची, लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of Christianity.
As वहीँ हैं reported to be लगभग 41,000 ईसाई denominations, many of which can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations with Wikipedia articles will be listed in order to ensure that all entries on this list are notable and verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements परिचय जिससे समूह can be properly पुकारा ईसाई, disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups.
For the purpose of simplicity, this list is intended to reflect the self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination.
Explanations of different opinions concerning उनके status as Christian denominations can be found at their respective articles.
There is no आधिकारिक मान्यता in सबसे भाग of the संसार लिये धार्मिक bodies, and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between विभिन्न चर्च परिचय whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative terms such as `` cult '', or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability.
Such considerations often vary from place to place, where one religious group may enjoy majority status in one region, but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another भाग of the संसार.
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any judgment about the size, महत्व, or character of a group or its members.
1804 map of `` Louisiana ``, edged on the west by the रॉकी kyu.
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the United States of America in 1803 of of फ़्रांस 's अर्जी to the territory of louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a कुल योग of 15 लाख डॉलर ( कम than 3 सेंट per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars, less than 42 cents per acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed सब or भाग of 15 उपस्थित U.S. states and two Canadian provinces.
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern नई मैक्सिको ; उत्तरी टेक्सास ; the portions of Montana, Wyoming, and Colorado east of the Continental Divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi River, including the city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
फ़्रांस नियंत्रित इस विशाल क्षेत्रफल from 1699 until 1762, the year it gave the territory to its ally Spain.
Under Napoleon Bonaparte, France took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of भवन an साम्राज्य in उत्तर अमेरिका.
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain, however, led फ़्रांस to लापरवाही ये योजनाएँ और बेचें the entire territory to the United States, who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
the खरीदें of the territory of Louisiana took place during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson.
At the time, the खरीदें faced घरेलू opposition because it was thought to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did नहीं contain प्रावधानों लिये acquiring territory, जेफरसन decided to go ahead साथ the purchase anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at Place d'Armes, New Orleans marking ट्रांसफ़र of louisiana to the संयुक्त राज्य, 10 March 1804, as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` Cool Jerk '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग लिखा by डोनाल्ड storball and originally performed by The Capitols.
Released in 1966, it reached No. 2 on the अमरीकी r & B chart and No. 7 on the pop chart.
The backing track for इस सोंग थी दरअसल अंकित ( secretly ) by the Motown house band The Funk Brothers.
Per one of the Funk Brothers, the song was originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk. ''
This was लिया इससे watching पड़ोस pimps, who would dance in the clubs, but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
Their version was subsequently नामित `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the शीर्षक होता be बैन or not receive much positive attention, and had the title changed to its current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd Rundgren, Big ट्रबल, इंसान यौन Response, The La De Da 's, The Creation, and The Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky feel to the song.
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 album Vacation and later re-recorded it for their 1990 एल्बम महानतम.
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York, Uncle Frank ( Gerry Bamman ) गाती `` कूल झटका '' in the बरसात.
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the Cool चाबुक '' ) is प्रयुक्त in कूल चाबुक commercials.
A recording of `` Cool Jerk '' by रिकार्डो रे is प्रदर्शित in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown, performed by the दुर्गंध भाइयो साथ सीसे vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The song is heard briefly in the animated विशेषता, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted.
Despite this reason, it is listed in some विसंगतियाँ of the फिल्मी 's soundtrack.
A लीग is a ईकाई of length ( or, rarely, area ).
It was long आम in यूरोपीय and Latin America, but it is no longer an official unit in any nation.
The league originally referred to the अलहदा a व्यक्ति could walk in an hour.
Since the Middle Ages, many values have been निर्दिष्ट in अनेक countries.
In the context of nautical distances, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can देखिए जब standing at sea level.
Thus, a ship traveling one `` league '' has reached what थी previously the farthest दृश्य अलहदा on the horizon.
The lack of a historical और वैश्विक मानक लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish फ़्री राज्य, a डोमिनियन of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल, having seceded from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of Ireland 's 32 counties.
चूंकि 1949 it has existed as the Republic of Ireland.
From its foundation, the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil war between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the सन्धि और प्रतिद्वंद्वियों जो समर्थित a republic.
The pro-treaty पक्ष, संगठित as cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the conflict and won subsequent elections.
They formed the government of the state until 1932, when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty गुट in fianna fáil, जो पराजित उन्हें in an चुनाव.
The Irish state, despite its violent beginnings, has remained a उदार democracy throughout its existence.
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established under the सन्धि और आयरलैंड 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain.
In 1948 Ireland formally बाएँ the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल and adopted the title of `` Republic ''.
In the economic sphere, the Irish राज्य रै था a मिश्रित प्रदर्शन.
on स्वतंत्रता, it was one of the wealthier countries in Europe per head of population.
However it also inherited from British rule the problems of unemployment, emigration, uneven geographical विकास और कमी of a देशी industrial base.
For much of its history, the राज्य struggled to rectify these problems.
Particular peaks of emigration were recorded during the late 1930s, 1950s और 1980s, जब the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, Fianna Fáil governments attempted to create आयरिश घरेलू उद्योग using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies were dropped in favour of फ़्री व्यापार साथ चयनित देशों और encouraging of foreign investment with low taxes.
This थी विस्तारित जब आयरलैंड डाला the European Economic Community in 1972.
In the 1990s and 2000s, Ireland अनुभवी an आर्थिक बूम ज्ञात as the सेल्टिक Tiger, in which the country 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours.
Immigration also surpassed emigration, bringing the राज्य 's population up to over 4 million.
However, चूंकि 2008, Ireland has experienced a severe crisis in the banking sector and with sovereign debt.
The resultant economic slump has deepened the प्रभाव of the संसार recession on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the आयरिश संविधान शामिल a claim on Northern Ireland as a part of the national territory.
However, the state also opposed and used its security forces against those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish रिपब्लिकन फौज, जो आजमाया to एकजुट आयरलैंड by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s और 1980s और has continued on a reduced scale.
Irish सरकारें meanwhile आजमाया to दलाली an अनुबंध to the conflict known as The Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish government to be a पार्टी to the उत्तरी negotiations in the anglo-irish Agreement of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good Friday Agreement, the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to Northern Ireland and बजाय extend the सही of Irish citizenship to all the people of the island should they wish to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) was the sixth President of the United States ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as American diplomat, Senator, and congressional प्रतिनिधि.
He was a member of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, नेशनल रिपब्लिकन, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams was the बेटे of पूर्व President John Adams and Abigail Adams.
As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating many international treaties, most notably the Treaty of Ghent, which ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of State, he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's northern border with Canada, negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of फ्लोरिडा, और authored the मुनरो doctrine.
Historians agree he थी एक of the महानतम राजनयिकों और secretaries of state in American history.
As president, he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted शिक्षा.
एडम्स enacted a भाग of his agenda and paid off much of the national debt.
He was stymied by a Congress controlled by his enemies, and his lack of patronage networks helped राजनेता eager to undercut him.
He lost his 1828 bid for re-election to एंड्रयू जैक्सन.
In doing so, he became the first president since his पिता to serve a सिंगल term.
Adams is best known as a राजनयिक जो तराशा अमेरिका 's विदेशी policy in line with his ardently nationalist commitment to America 's republican values.
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar और moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' lifetime, technological नवप्रवर्तनों और नई अर्थात् of संचार spread messages of religious revival, social reform, and party politics.
Goods, money, and लोगों traveled अधिक rapidly and efficiently than ever before.
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after leaving office, serving for the last 17 years of उसके जीवन साथ दूर वृहद acclamation than he had achieved as president.
He is, so दूर, the तभी president later elected to the United States House of Representatives ( though John Tyler was elected to the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ).
एनिमेटेड by उसके growing revulsion against slavery, Adams became a leading opponent of the Slave Power.
He predicted that if a civil युद्ध यहूद to ब्रेक आउट, the president could abolish slavery by using his war powers.
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue, but said that if the South became स्वतंत्र वहीँ होता be a श्रेणी of bloody slave revolts.
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer वेब ब्राउजर इससे microsoft.
It was released to the public on कूच 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band version that is not tied to the release अनुसूची of कोई particular संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, नापसंद previous versions.
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a Windows operating system, although some OEMs have संस्थापित it साथ खिड़कियाँ 7 on उनके pcs, as well as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7, खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 r2, खिड़कियाँ विस्टा सेवा पैक 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
खिड़कियाँ XP and earlier are not supported.
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version of Internet एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित on खिड़कियाँ Vista.
Both IA-32 and x64 builds are available.
अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 supports अनेक सीएसएस 3 गुण, embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows Color System, and has improved JavaScript performance.
It is the last of the five major web browsers to implement support लिये स्केलेबल Vector Graphics ( SVG ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite, hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media Foundation, imaging support provided by खिड़कियाँ इमेजिंग घटक, और ऊँची वफ़ादारी मुद्रण संचालित by the xml पेपर Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 also supports the HTML5 video and audio tags and the Web Open Font Format.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the dr. मील Medicine Company.
It was developed by Maurice Treener, head chemist at Miles, in Elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches, pains, inflammation, fever, headache, heartburn, खट्टा पेट, अपच, और hangovers, जबकि neutralizing excess stomach acid.
It was launched in 1931.
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and फ्लू, alka-seltzer Plus, was later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, Alka-Mints, was introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
Alka-Seltzer is फिलहाल स्वामित्व by बायर Schering Pharma AG, Germany.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been विस्तारित to चरितार्थ an संपूर्ण लकीर of medications sold over the counter and taken by means of rapidly dissolving tablets that form a carbonated solution in water.
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus टैब्लेट dissolving in water
Image showing the six सबसे आम speleothems with labels.
Enlarge to दृश्य labels.
A stalactite (, ; from the Greek stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( द्वितीयक खनिज ) कि hangs इससे the ceiling of limestone caves.
It is a प्रकार of dripstone.
The corresponding formation on the floor of the cave is known as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree बजाय of स्पेलिंग आउट the title in full, such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many डिग्री have अधिक than one abbreviation.
In the uk, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops ( e.g. `` BSc '' rather than `` B.Sc. ``.
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical, cultural, ethnic, genetic, भौगोलिक, ऐतिहासिक, भाषाई, religious, or social affiliation.
First used to denote national affiliations, the पद began to be प्रयुक्त to relate to physical traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the term was often used, in a taxonomic sense, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race often is प्रयुक्त in a भोली or simplistic रास्ता, i.e. कि among humans, race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species, Homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over time, involving लोक taxonomies
that define of individuals आधारित on आभास traits.
वैज्ञानिकों consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies and theories that grew आउट of the कार्य of 19th-century विज्ञानियों and physiologists has led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic.
Although still used in general contexts, it is now often replaced by अन्य शब्द जिससे are less ambiguous and emotionally charged, such as populations, people ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
Lucy Stone ( August 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) was a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist, and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women.
In 1847, स्टोन became the first woman from Massachusetts to earn a college degree.
She spoke out for women 's rights and against slavery at a time जब महिलाओं यहूद हतोत्साहित and prevented from public speaking.
Stone was the first recorded American woman to retain her अपना पिछला नाम बाद विवाह.
Stone 's organizational activities लिये the कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the पहला नेशनल महिलाओं 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन और वो समर्थित और sustained it annually along with a number of other local, state and regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in सामने of a क्रमांक of विधान bodies to promote laws giving more rights to women.
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after which she helped form the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's अधिकारों reformers, the नीतियां मॉडरेट अमरीकी स्त्री suffrage संघ, which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote.
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's अधिकारों, प्रकाशन और distributing speeches by herself and others, and convention proceedings.
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal, a weekly periodical that she established and promoted, Stone aired both her own and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's rights movement '', स्टोन वितरित a वाक which sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the first person by whom the heart of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question. ''
Together, Anthony, Stanton, and Stone have महरूम पुकारा the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a bond is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the बंध जारीकर्ता to the holders.
It is a debt security, अंतर्गत जिससे the जारीकर्ता owes the धारकों a कर्ज़ और, depending on the terms of the bond, is obliged to pay them interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
ब्याज is प्रायः देय at fixed intervals ( semiannual, annual, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the bond is परक्राम्य, i.e. the ownership of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of the bond is the lender ( creditor ), the जारीकर्ता of the बंध is the borrower ( debtor ), और the कूपन is the ब्याज.
Bonds provide the borrower साथ बाह्य निधि to वित्त long-term निवेश, or, in the case of government bonds, to finance current expenditure.
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are considered to be money market यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is in the length of the term of the instrument.
Bonds and stocks are both securities, but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. वे हैं owners ), whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e. they are lenders ).
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term, or maturity, after which the बंध is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable bond, such as Consols, which is a perpetuity, i.e. a बंध साथ no maturity.
A scale model of the मीनार of लंदन.
This model can be found inside the मीनार.
Scale मॉडल of जल powered turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe, 1:43 Ford F-100, 1:25 revell monogram 1999 घाट mustang कोबरा, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model जहाजों और castle
A scale model is a physical model, a representation or copy of an object that is larger or smaller than the actual आकार of the ऑब्जेक्ट, जिससे seeks to maintain the सापेक्ष proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object.
Very often the scale model is used as a guide to making the object in पूरा आकार.
Scale models are built or एकत्रित लिये अनेक कारण.
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the Zune product family released on September 15, 2009 by microsoft.
It was a direct competitor with the Apple iPod and iPhone श्रेणी of मोबाईल डिवाइस.
It was initially released in 16 और 32 gb capacities.
A 64 GB version was released on अप्रैल 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen interface लिये नेविगेशन और शामिल wi-fi लिये तुल्यकालन, अभिगम to the Zune Marketplace and Web browsing.
The Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 चिप, allowing it to खेल 720p वीडियो through the वैकल्पिक HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, सामग्री होता be scaled down to 480x272 pixels on the player 's OLED touchscreen.
Old Sparky, the electric chair used at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution, usually performed using an electric chair, is an execution method originating in the United States in which the condemned व्यक्ति is strapped to a विशेषकर निर्मित लकड़ी कुर्सी and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This execution विधि थी निर्मित by employees of Thomas Edison during the War of Currents, and has been used only in the United States and, for a period of several decades, in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned व्यक्ति थी संलग्न to the कुर्सी, विभिन्न cycles ( differing in voltage and duration ) of alternating current would be passed through the individual 's body, in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ).
The first jolt of electric current was designed to cause तात्कालिक unconsciousness and brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs.
Death was frequently caused by electrical overstimulation of the heart.
Although in the United राज्य the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै become a प्रतीक of the death penalty, its use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection, which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution.
Although कुछ राज्य स्टिल maintain electrocution as a विधि of निष्पादन, today it is only maintained as a secondary method that may be chosen over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an वैकल्पिक form of execution in Alabama, Florida, South Carolina and Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal injection as an alternative method.
In the states of Kentucky and टेनेसी, the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै महरूम रिटायर्ड मगर लिये those जिनकी पूंजी अपराधों यहूद वचनबद्ध prior to legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( केंटकी : कूच 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates who do not choose electrocution or inmates who committed their crimes after the designated date are killed by lethal इंजेक्शन.
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in Arkansas and Oklahoma if other forms of execution are found असंवैधानिक in the राज्य at the समय of निष्पादन.
It is the sole method of निष्पादन in वर्मांट, जहाँ treason is the only capital crime.
On February 8, 2008, the Nebraska Supreme Court determined that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and unusual punishment '' अंतर्गत the राज्य 's संविधान.
इस brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska, the only remaining state to retain electrocution as its sole method of execution for murder.
The Maryland House of delegates is the निम्नतर हाउस of the सामान्य Assembly, the state legislature of the American State of Maryland, and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts.
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State House ( state capitol ) on राज्य वृत्त in annapolis, जिससे is the state capital.
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the कार्यालयों of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल of the State of Maryland.
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis, in the आसपास कैस्पर R. टेलर, Jr. House Office Building.
The Liberation of Paris ( भी ज्ञात as the बैटल लिये पेरिस ) took प्लेस during World War II from 19 August 1944 until the surrender of the occupying German garrison on 25 August.
The Liberation of Paris started with an uprising by the फ्रेंच प्रतिरोध विरूद्ध the जर्मनी garrison.
On 24 August, the French शक्तियां of the आंतरिक ( शक्तियां françaises de l'intérieur, ffi ) प्राप्त reinforcements from the Free French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton.
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second compiègne armistice in June 1940, when the German Army occupied northern and westernmost France, and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France.
This battle marked the मुक्ति of पेरिस और the निर्वासन of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in Germany.
However, there was still much heavy fighting to be done before France was liberated, including the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान august-september ( in provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ), साथ the german-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in ये क्षेत्रों लिये the शेष of 1944 and into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a song written by Dave Mason of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album, Traffic.
The song was also a hit single for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, US # 33 ), Mongo Santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) and ग्रैंड दुर्गंध रेलरोड ( 1971, us # 54 ).
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ), The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ), Lou Rawls, Freddie King, Paul Weller, Lulu, Chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), विरल धरती, the इलेक्ट्रिक Concept Orchestra, Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ), The Ohio Players ( 1971 ), Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes.
A Steel ढोल संस्करण by त्रिनिदाद आयल Company was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2.
It was also प्रदर्शित in the 2000 film Duets, sung by Huey Lewis.
Both the original and the Joe Cocker cover were featured in the movie उड़ान, अभिनीत डेंज़ल वॉशिंगटन.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor, आवाज़ कर्ता, सिंगर, songwriter and musician, best known for his starring role as Ned Bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's Declassified School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules, as the lead character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth and final ऋतु of the एबीसी परिवार show Greek.
Sample view of an electronic स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड based on images
Sample दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic स्वास्थ्य सूचना परिचय individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically capable of being shared आरपार अलग स्वास्थ्य परवाह जमावट.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other सूचना संजाल or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age and वज़न, और बिलिंग information.
Loan origination is the process by which a borrower applies for a नई ऋण, और a lender प्रक्रियाओं that application.
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of निधि ( or घटती the application ).
Loan servicing covers everything बाद disbursing the funds until the loan is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized संस्करण of नई खाता opening for financial services organizations.
Certain people and संगठन specialize in loan origination.
बंधक brokers and other mortgage originator companies serve as a prominent example.
There हैं अनेक अलग types of loans.
For more information on loan types, see the loan and consumer lending articles.
Steps शामिल in originating a ऋण vary by loan type, various kinds of loan risk, regulator, lender policy, and other factors.
Top left : The टेनेसी घाटी प्राधिकार, भाग of the New Deal, being signed into law in 1933.
Top right : Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who was जिम्मेदार लिये पहलों और कार्यक्रम collectively ज्ञात as the New Deal.
Bottom : A पब्लिक mural from one of the artists employed by the New Deal.
the नई सौदे थी a श्रेणी of आर्थिक programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936.
They involved presidential executive orders or laws passed by कॉंग्रेस दौरान the पहला term of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The programs were in जवाब to the ग्रेट अवसाद, और केन्द्रित on कया historians call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and सुधार of the वित्तीय प्रणाली to prevent a repeat अवसाद.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ), with its base in liberal ideas, the white South, traditional Democrats, बिग नगर मशीने, और the newly सशक्त मजदूर संघ and ethnic minorities.
The Republicans were split, with conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth, and liberals accepting कुछ of it और होनहार to मेक it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential elections into the 1960s, while the opposition Conservative गठबन्धन largely नियंत्रित कॉंग्रेस इससे 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically थी प्रयुक्त लिये समर्थक of the नई Deal, and `` conservative `` for its opponents.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt थी assisted in उसके endeavours by a “pro-spender” बहुमत in कॉंग्रेस ( drawn from two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and Left party districts ).
As noted by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-southern डेमोक्रेट majorities — 270 non-southern डेमोक्रेट representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) और a `` दूसरी नई सौदे '' ( 1935–38 ), with the second one more liberal and more controversial.
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ विविध groups, from banking and railroads to industry and farming, all of which demanded help for economic survival.
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration, for instance, provided $ 500 million for relief operations by states और शहरों, जबकि the short-lived cwa ( सिविल Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions, the Works Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief program ( which made the federal government by far the largest सिंगल नियोक्ता in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States Housing Authority and Farm Security Administration, both in 1937, और the मेला मजदूर मानकों Act of 1938, which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter split between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major रिपब्लिकन gains in कॉंग्रेस in 1938.
Conservative republicans और डेमोक्रेट in Congress joined in the informal Conservative Coalition.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs such as the WPA और ccc और अवरोधित major liberal proposals.
Roosevelt himself turned his attention to the war effort, and won reelection in 1940 और 1944.
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the पहला संस्करण of the agricultural समायोजन अधिनियम ( aaa ) असंवैधानिक, however the aaa was rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after FDR, Dwight D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61 ) बाएँ the New Deal largely intact, even expanding it in some areas.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as inspiration for a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार programs, which Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained.
बाद 1974, however, the call for deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
The New Deal regulation of banking ( glass–steagall अधिनियम ) थी निलंबित in the 1990s.
Many New Deal programs remain active, with some still operating under the original names, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing प्रशासन ( fha ), और the टेनेसी Valley Authority ( TVA ).
The largest programs still in existence today are the Social सुरक्षा प्रणाली और the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज Commission ( SEC ).
A woman ( ), pl : women ( ) is a female human.
The term woman is usually सुरक्षित लिये an adult, with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent.
However, the term woman is भी sometimes used to identify a female human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women are typically सक्षम of giving जनम, though older women who have gone through menopause and some intersex women can not.
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rock band Aerosmith for the 1998 film Armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first # 1 लिये the बैंड बाद 28 सालो साथ ).
The song stayed at number one for four weeks from September 5 to सितंबर 26, 1998.
The song also stayed at number 1 for several सप्ताह in अनेक अन्य countries.
In the UK, the song peaked at number four, becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting सोंग in the uk, जहाँ it was the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and has sold over a million copies.
Although not used by the majority of the world 's देशों, daylight saving time is common in the Western world.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English — is the practice of advancing घड़ियाँ दौरान the हल्का महीने so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks हैं समायोजित आगे एक घंटा near the start of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn.
The आधुनिक विचार of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by George Vernon Hudson and it was first implemented during the First World War.
Many countries have used it at various times चूंकि तब.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s, और dst उपयोग विस्तारित following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe since then.
The अभ्यास रै महरूम दोनो praised और criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings लाभ retailing, खेल, और अन्य क्रियाएँ कि exploit धूप after working hours, but can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत ), आधुनिक हीटिंग और कूलिंग usage patterns differ greatly, and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST clock shifts present other चुनौतियां.
They complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt बैठक, सफर, बिलिंग, रिकार्ड keeping, medical devices, heavy equipment, and sleep patterns.
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically, but this can be सीमित और error-prone, विशेषकर जब DST dates are changed.
floorplan of the Château de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret department in north-central France on the loing नदी.
The town is located about south of Paris and east of orléans in the gâtinais.
Montargis is the दूसरी largest city in the Loiret, after Orléans.
It is near a large forest, and contains light उद्योग और खेती, सहित saffron.
Due to its numerous नहरों और पुलों, montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais. ''
Though quite modern, it retains a मध्यकालीन आकर्षण in इसके शहर area.
In computer storage, a logical unit number, or LUN, is a number used to identify a logical unit, which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols जिससे encapsulate scsi, ऐसे as fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be used with any device which supports read/write operations, such as a tape drive, but is most प्रायः used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
Though not technically correct, the term `` LUN '' is often also used to refer to the लॉजिकल disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply Mark, is the दूसरी किताब of the नई वसीयत.
This canonical account of the life of Jesus of Nazareth is एक of the तीन synoptic gospels.
It was thought to be an निचोड़, जिससे खाते लिये इसके place as the second gospel in the Bible.
However, most contemporary विद्वानों अभी लिहाज़ it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was used as a source for the अन्य synoptic gospels इन्जील of मैथ्यू और इन्जील of Luke is widely held by many, although not all, New Testament scholars.
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus इससे उसके बपतिस्मा by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to his death and resurrection.
It focuses विशेषकर on the last week of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus as a वीर man of कार्रवाई, an exorcist, healer and miracle worker.
An important theme of Mark is the मुक्तिदाता Secret.
यीशु silences the demoniacs he heals, tries unsuccessfully to keep his messianic identity secret, and conceals his message with parables.
Meanwhile, the disciples fail to understand both the implication of the miracles of Jesus and the meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest, death and resurrection.
Most scholars believe that the original text of the इन्जील ends at चिह्नित 16:8 साथ the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb and that the following account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition.
According to tradition and some early church writers, the author is Mark the Evangelist, the companion of the apostle Peter.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on several underlying sources, varying in form and in धर्मशास्त्र, जिससे tells विरूद्ध the परंपरा that the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching.
The text is a संकलन जिससे may शामिल eye-witness खाते as खूब as known apostolic preachings, and pre-existing written records that do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the stories in the gospel may have been transmitted orally पहले होने written down.
Various elements within the gospel suggest that the author wrote in Syria or Palestine for a non-jewish ईसाई community.
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by अंग्रेज़ी भाषाशास्त्री और विश्वविद्यालयों of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit, but eventually developed into a much larger work.
It was लिखा in चरण between 1937 और 1949, much of it during World War II.
It is the दूसरी best-selling novel ever written, with over 150 million copies sold.
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an पहले आयु निर्मित the एक रिंग to नियम the अन्य बजती of शक्ति as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a होब्बिट जमीन नहीं नापसंद the अंग्रेज़ी countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins, Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee, Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took, but also the hobbits ' chief allies and travelling companions : Aragorn, a Human Ranger ; Boromir, a man from Gondor ; Gimli, a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be एक आवाज़ of a two-volume नियत, साथ the other being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the Rings as three volumes over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955, यूँ बनाना the अभी परिचित रब of the Rings trilogy.
The three आयतन यहूद हकदार the फेलोशिप of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, two per volume, साथ अनेक appendices of पृष्ठभूमि material included at the end of the third volume.
The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित into अनेक भाषाएं.
Tolkien 's work has been the subject of extensive विश्लेषण of इसके themes and origins.
Although a major work in itself, the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on चूंकि 1917, in a प्रक्रम he वर्णित as mythopoeia.
प्रभाव on इस पहले कार्य, और on the स्टोरी of the रब of the Rings, include philology, mythology, religion and the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization, as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I.
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on आधुनिक काल्पनिक ; the प्रभाव of tolkien 's works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular संस्कृति, the founding of अनेक समाजों by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's works, and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has inspired, and continues to inspire, artwork, music, films और टेलीविज़न, वीडियो खेल, और subsequent literature.
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made for radio, theatre, and film.
The following is an एपीसोड सूची लिये the निकलोडियन sitcom Drake & Josh.
The series debuted on जनवरी 11, 2004.
A TV film Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh was made अलावा इससे the नियमित श्रेणी on दिसम्बर 5, 2008.
There are a total of 60 एपीसोड यहूद उत्पादित spanning four seasons.
Drake Bell, Josh Peck, and Miranda Cosgrove were the only actors to appear in सब 60 एपीसोड.
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's headquarters and अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता क्लारा, California in August 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of quarterback Alex Smith, who is in a ब्लैक जर्सी ; the रक्षा in श्वेत.
In the National Football League, training camp refers to the time पहले the ऋतु commences.
During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside location, प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर for at least the first few weeks.
This is similar to baseball 's वसन्त प्रशिक्षण.
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is used in several different ways.
New players and कोच उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems.
For younger players, it serves as a काल of evaluation ; for veterans, it is time to round back into form.
Training camp is divided into several different components.
the पहला is scrimmages.
These are pseudo-games where teams run nearly full games ' लायक of plays.
Sometimes, two practice सत्र are held on the same day.
This concept is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of training camp include drills, meetings साथ कोच और अन्य खिलाड़ी at एक 's position, weight training, and pre-season games.
The latter half of प्रशिक्षण शिविर leads directly into the exhibition season.
With NFL training camps starting in late-july, the biggest concern has been dehydration.
in 2001, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स खिलाड़ी korey Stringer died of a medical condition based from dehydration and heatstroke.
The death of stringer prompted the एनएफएल to change their training policies.
At each practice, every team must have the team doctor and trainers on the field ; additionally, an एम्बुलेंस must be present during practices.
With NFL training camps beginning in late July, severe weather can affect अभ्यास और प्रदर्शनी games.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to lightning near Cleveland Browns Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often able to विज़िट उनके पसंदीदा टोली 's प्रशिक्षण शिविर to कैच an जल्दी dekh at the खिलाड़ी ; प्रवेश to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket, making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons.
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and events to make प्रशिक्षण शिविर a अधिक fan-friendly अनुभव.
In computing, a file system ( or filesystem ) is a प्रकार of आंकड़ा स्टोर जिससे can be used to store, retrieve and update a set of files.
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files, or to the वास्तविक तन्त्र or फर्मवेयर components that implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are प्रयुक्त on लोकल आंकड़ा भंडार डिवाइस ; अन्य provide file access via a network protocol ( e.g. NFS, SMB, or 9P clients ).
Some file systems are `` virtual '', in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a अलग संचिका system used as a backing store.
The file system manages अभिगम to दोनो the सामग्री of फाइलें and the metadata about those files.
It is responsible लिये arranging भंडार स्पेस ; विश्वसनीयता, दक्षता, और ट्यूनिंग with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – कूच 8, 1930 ) थी the 27th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the only person to have परोसा in दोनो of these offices.
Before becoming President, taft, a रिपब्लिकन, थी चयनित to serve on the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the संयुक्त राज्य और in 1891 a न्यायधीश on the संयुक्त States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
In 1900, President William McKinley appointed Taft governor-general of the फिलीपीन.
In 1904, President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of War in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे taft, तब उसके बंद राजनैतिक ally, into his handpicked presidential successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State, जबकि घटती दोहराया offers इससे रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the Supreme Court.
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow रिपब्लिकन रूज़वेल्ट, taft जीती an easy victory in his 1908 bid for the presidency.
In his only term, Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, सिविल सेवा सुधार, strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स आयोग, improving the प्रदर्शन of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the आर्थिक विकास of राष्ट्र in Latin America and Asia through `` Dollar Diplomacy ``, and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his decisions, often alienated his own key constituencies, and was overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके बोली लिये a दूसरी पद in the presidential election of 1912.
in सर्वेक्षण of अध्यक्षीय scholars, Taft is usually ranked near the middle of lists of all American Presidents.
After leaving office, Taft spent his time in academia, arbitration, और the ढूंढें लिये संसार सलाम through उसके self-founded League to Enforce Peace.
In 1921, बाद the First World War, President Warren G. Harding appointed Taft Chief Justice of the United States.
Taft served in this capacity जबतक shortly पहले उसके मौत in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. demille कि dramatized the biblical स्टोरी of the exodus, in जिससे the hebrew-born मूसा, an अपनाया Egyptian prince, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves.
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as his adoptive brother, Pharaoh Rameses II, Anne Baxter as nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan, yvonne de कार्लो as sephora, Debra Paget as Lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as pharaoh सेती i, नीना foch as Bithiah, Martha Scott as Yoshebel, Judith Anderson as Memnet, Vincent Price as Baka, and John Carradine as Aaron.
The फिल्मी थी released by Paramount Pictures in VistaVision on October 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, which DeMille narrated, थी the last film that he directed.
He was नियत to सीधा the 1958 रीमेक of उसके 1938 film The Buccaneer, but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also planned to film the life of रब baden पावेल, the संस्थापक of the स्काउट movement, with David Niven ; this project was never realized.
The Ten आयतें is a partial remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film.
कुछ of the डाल और क्रू of the 1956 version worked on the original.
it रै चूंकि been remade as a television miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the most financially कामयाब films ever made, grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office.
Adjusting for inflation, this makes it the sixth highest-grossing film domestically, साथ an समायोजित कुल of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box office website `` The संख्याएँ '' सूचियाँ the domestic gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In June 2008, the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नाज़िल its `` Ten Top Ten `` —the best ten films in ten American film genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community.
The Ten Commandments was listed as the tenth best फिल्मी in the एपिक विधा.
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including बेहतरीन चित्र, और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विज़ुअल Effects.
Charlton Heston was nominated लिये a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति Picture Actor in the drama category.
Yul brynner जीती the नेशनल फलक of पुनर्विलोकन पुरस्कार for Best Actor for his role as Rameses, along with his other roles in The King and I and Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a major city and the largest नगर in the u.S. राज्य of Kentucky and the county seat of Jefferson County.
Since 2003, the city 's borders have been with those of the काउंटी क्युकी of a city-county merger.
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's संतुलन कुल, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous कस्बों और is the जनसांख्यिकी listed in most sources and national rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan area ( MSA ) had a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 रैंकिंग 42nd nationally.
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding counties, eight in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी Indiana ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville Combined Statistical Area, having a population of 1,451,564, includes the MSA, hardin काउंटी और larue काउंटी in केंटकी, और Scott County, Indiana.
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century, Louisville today is best known as the location of the Kentucky डर्बी, the पहला of तीन सालाना thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
a ठेठ प्रायोगिक setup for an aldol reaction.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °c ) the तापमान of जिससे is होने monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ).
A कूलिंग नहाना, in प्रयोगशाला रसायन ( प्रायः लकिन not always organic chemistry ) practice, is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation, to हटाएँ सॉल्वैंट्स using a रोटरी evaporator, or to perform a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( विशेषकर द्रव नाइट्रोजन, जल, or भी एयर ) — लकिन सबसे commonly the पद refers to ( b ) a मिश्रण of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as liquid water, ethylene glycol, acetone, etc. ), which transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A परिचित उदाहरण of इस is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice cream.
The phase-change of ice into liquid water requires उर्जा, 'pulling ' ऊष्मा इससे the system.
Adding salt lowers the temp at which this happens, meaning more energy has to be अवशोषित from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it must 'pull ' more heat from its environment to become द्रव. )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive खाना सेवन to the detriment of an व्यक्तिगत 's शारीरिक और mental health.
Bulimia nervosa and एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा हैं the सबसे common specific forms in the United Kingdom.
Other types of खाने विकार शामिल binge eating disorder and eating disorder not otherwise specified.
Bulimia nervosa is a विकार characterized by binge eating and purging.
Purging can include self-induce vomiting, over-exercising, और the उपयोग of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by चरम खाना प्रतिबंध to the पाइंट of self-starvation and excessive weight loss.
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million being प्रभावित in the u.K. ), खाने विकार affect males as well.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with eating disorders are males ( गोर्गान, 1999 ).
( an estimated 1 लाख u.K. males being affected ).
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both men and women, there is evidence to suggest कि it is महिलाओं in the पश्चिमी संसार जो हैं at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk.
nearly हाफ of सब Americans personally know someone with an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the सेंट्रल प्रक्रियाओं of भूख रै increased tremendously since leptin was discovered, and the skill to observe the functions of the brain as well.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory control processes are involved in eating आचरण, जिससे is a कुंजी घटक in खाने disorders.
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely understood, but there is evidence कि it may be linked to अन्य चिकित्सा शर्तें and situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness और youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting diverse populations.
One study showed कि लड़कियों साथ adhd have a greater chance of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD.
Another पढ़ाई सुझाया कि महिलाओं with PTSD, especially due to sexually related trauma, are more likely to develop anorexia nervosa.
One study showed that foster girls are more likely to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think that peer pressure and idealized body-types seen in the media हैं भी a significant factor.
Some research show that for निश्चित लोगों वहीँ are genetic reasons why they may be prone to developing an eating disorder.
Recent studies have found evidence a सहसंबंध between मरीजों with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In addition, anxiety विकार और व्यक्तित्व विकार are common occurrences with clients of eating disorders.
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from विशिष्ट प्रकार of खाने विकार, the consequences of eating disorders can be severe, including death ( whether from direct medical effects of disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the United States existed from the early years of the colonial period ; it थी firmly स्थापित by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
However, by 1804, all states north of the Mason and Dixon Line had either abolished slavery outright or passed कानून लिये the gradual abolition of slavery.
In 1787 Congress prohibited slavery in the उत्तरपश्चिम territory.
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton industry after 1800, and expanded into the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
The nation was polarized into slave and free राज्य साथ the mason-dixon Line, which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and ग्रेट ब्रिटेन दोनो निषिद्ध the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्लेव व्यापार in 1808, but the domestic trade, with sales to the Deep South, expanded dramatically, and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade.
Before the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending गुलामी और इसके expansion into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार, और numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free men.
After failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's election, in 1861 eleven slave states broke away to form the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका, अग्रणी to the अमरीकी सिविल War.
The संघीय सरकारी in 1862 made abolition of slavery a war goal.
In January 1863 अध्यक्ष lincoln freed slaves in the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth amendment, प्रभावी दिसम्बर 1865, abolished गुलामी throughout the entire United States, including the Border states and the Indian territories.
From the 16th to the 19th सदियां, an estimated 12 million Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See Slavery in the Americas.
The ग्रेट बहुमत गई to the sugar plantations of the West Indies or Brazil, where mortality was high.
About 645,000 were brought to कया is now the United States.
By the 1860 United States Census, the स्लेव जनसांख्यिकी in the American South had grown to four million.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 स्लेव states, nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in four ), amounting to 8 % of all American families.
While some slaves worked as house servants and urban artisans, the great majority worked on बागानों or विशाल खेतो, cultivating lucrative नकदी फसलों, ऐसे as राइस, tobacco, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South, where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in कपास.
In small operations, वे worked with their owners.
In large बागानों वे यहूद निर्देशित by white paid overseers.
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human being, and of his/her descendants ), a racial element थी आधारभूत : स्लेव यहूद अश्वेतों of अफ़्रीकी descent और स्वामित्व, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by other southern colonies, enacted law that children of slave माताओं यहूद born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, which was regulated by states, and became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also organized work by a system of बंधुआ मजदूर ज्ञात as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted for several years for both poor Europeans और africans alike, to अदा बंद the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements क्युकी of ग़रीब economies in their home countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to import more Africans as slaves.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it संयुक्त a किस्में of विधान and added new provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law.
Schematic cross खण्ड of भाग of पत्ता, जाइलम shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( फ्लोएम is the अन्य ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी, हालांकि it is मिला throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, but it also transports some nutrients through the plant.
This clock representation shows some of the major units of geological समय और निर्णायक events of Earth history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on Earth ; इसके अपर boundary is अभी regarded as 4.0 ga ( billion years ago ).
Other subdivisions reflect the एवोल्यूशन of जीवन ; the archean और proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
The two लाख साल quaternary period, the time of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at this scale.
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, और अन्य धरती वैज्ञानिकों to describe the समय और संबंध between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees साथ the तिथियाँ और नामकरण नियत forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy.
Evidence from radiometric dating indicates कि the धरती is परिचय 4.54 अरब years old.
The geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been organized into विभिन्न इकाई according to events which took place in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the composition of strata which correspond to them, indicating major geological or paleontological कार्यक्रम, ऐसे as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the Cretaceous period and the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction इवेंट, जिससे चिह्नित the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life.
Older time spans which predate the विश्वसनीय चट्टान record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing परिपथ made by Texas Instruments.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped bas, more user friendly version of the TI-85, and as a replacement for the TI-81.
It was the सीधा predecessor of the TI-83.
it साझा with the TI-85 a 6 MHz Zilog Z80 microprocessor.
Like the ti-81, the ti-82 सुविधाएँ a 96x64 पिक्सेल display, and the core feature set of the TI-81 with many new features.
The cast of वर्ण of the किंग of Fighters XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game series, produced by SNK Playmore, शामिल a चौड़ी डाल of characters, some of which are taken from other SNK games.
The story takes place in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in जिससे an सालाना श्रेणी of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held.
The पहला खेल in the श्रेणी introduces the initial main character of the series, Kyo Kusanagi, a young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi clan 's enemies, his rival Iori Yagami, and the god Orochi and इसके इंसान अनुसरणकर्ता, among अन्य.
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc, revolving around K ', a young man who seeks to destroy the mysterious NESTS organization because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his past memories, so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control.
In The King of Fighters 2003, a new character named Ash Crimson enters the tournament, to steal the powers of the clans जो sealed the orochi in the past for an unknown reason.
A new group of antagonists, known as Those From the Past, also appears in the series ; they want to obtain orochi 's शक्ति लिये the purpose of giving it to their unknown master.
The plot and the characters आए इससे the yamata no Orochi legend.
There are also several characters in the games that हैं parodies or homages to अनेक लोकप्रिय anime, manga, and films.
Merchandise based on the characters रै भी महरूम released, सहित action figures and keychains.
The characters have garnered praise इससे अनेक वीडियो खेल publications लिये the quality of their designs and movesets.
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in some of the characters, लकिन added कि the रोस्टर is greatly विविध.
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style reality television series that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the एनिमल ग्रह cable channel.
The program follows Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, as he and the क्रू सवार उनके विभिन्न बरतन harass जापानी whalers बंद the coast of Antarctica.
On January 5, 2013, Animal Planet renewed the श्रेणी लिये a छठे ऋतु.
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a Neotropical प्रजाति of त्रिभुज.
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle which is sometimes known as the New Guinea Harpy त्रिभुज or पापुआई Harpy Eagle.
It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Americas, and among the largest extant प्रजाति of ईगल्स in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy layer.
Destruction of its natural habitat has seen it vanish इससे अनेक भाग of its former range, and it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
Biological classification, or scientific classification in biology, is a method of scientific taxonomy used to group and categorize जीवों into groups such as genus or species.
These समूह हैं ज्ञात as taxa ( singular : taxon ).
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus, who grouped प्रजाति according to shared physical characteristics.
These groupings have since been संशोधित to improve संगति with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th century, phylogenetic taxonomy in which organisms are grouped आधारित purely on inferred विकासवादी relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in some areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, which uses DNA sequences as data, has also driven many recent revisions और is संभावित to continue doing so.
Biological classification belongs to the science of biological systematics.
लेनन 's signature
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John विंस्टन लेनन ; 9 अक्तूबर 1940 – 8 दिसम्बर 1980 ) थी an English musician, singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of the Beatles, one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music.
With Paul mccartney, he formed एक of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a teenager लेनन became शामिल in the skiffle craze ; his first band, the Quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade, Lennon embarked on a solo career that उत्पादित the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic ओनो बैंड और imagine, and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine ``.
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969, he बदला उसके नाम to जॉन Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote time to raising his infant son Sean, but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 साथ the नई एल्बम दोगुना काल्पनिक.
He was murdered तीन weeks after its release.
लेनन नाज़िल a rebellious प्रकृति और acerbic wit in his music, writing, drawings, on film and in interviews.
विवादास्पद through उसके राजनैतिक और सलाम सक्रियता, he स्थानांतरित to नई यॉर्क नगर in 1971, जहाँ his criticism of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport him, while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 लाख इकाई, और as लेखक, co-writer or performer, he is responsible for 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a बीबीसी पोल on the 100 महानतम britons voted him eighth, and in 2008, Rolling Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all time.
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 और into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of Fame in 1994.
Statue of Rip van Winkle in irvington, नई यॉर्क, not far from `` Sunnyside ``, the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author Washington Irving published in 1819, as खूब as the नाम of the story 's fictional protagonist.
लिखा जबकि इरविंग थी जीना in बर्मिंघम, England, it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains, Irving later admitted, `` जब i लिखा the स्टोरी, I had never been on the Catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five year इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, अनेक significant records have been set.
This page तभी शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी awards won by various artists.
This does not include the various special awards that are प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional character created and portrayed by American comedian Paul reubens.
He is best known for his two टेलीविज़न series and film series during the 1980s.
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a stage act that जल्दी led to an HBO special in 1981.
As the stage performance gained further popularity, reubens took the अक्षर to गति चित्र with Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985, toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children.
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse, an Emmy Award winning children 's series that ran on सीबीएस इससे 1986-1991.
Another film, Big Top pee-wee, थी released in 1988.
due to ऋणात्मक मीडिया ध्यान following a कांड in 1991, Reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s, and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to write a new Pee-wee फिल्मी, Pee-wee 's Playhouse : The Movie.
In June 2007, Reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first समय चूंकि 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's Guys ' Choice Awards.
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban town of पाइंट प्लेस, विस्कॉन्सिन, from May 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the फॉक्स टेलीविज़न संजाल, first airing on August 23, 1998, running for eight consecutive seasons, and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18, 2006.
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace, Mila Kunis, Ashton Kutcher, डैनी masterson, लौरा prepon, and Wilmer Valderrama.
The main adult डाल सदस्यों यहूद डेबरा jo rupp, kurtwood Smith, Don Stark and, during the first three seasons, Tanya Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state स्तिथ in the Midwestern United States.
It is named after the Kansas River which flows through it, जिससे in फेरे थी नामित after the Kansa Native American tribe, which inhabited the area.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean `` लोगों of the हवा '' or `` people of the south wind, '' although this was probably not the term 's original meaning.
Residents of Kansas are पुकारा `` Kansans. ''
लिये हज़ारों of सालो what is now Kansas was home to numerous and diverse Native American tribes.
Tribes in the पूर्वी भाग of the state generally lived in villages along the river valleys.
Tribes in the पश्चिमी भाग of the राज्य यहूद semi- nomadic and hunted large herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, but the pace of settlement त्वरित in the 1850s, in the midst of राजनैतिक wars over the slavery issue.
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854, abolitionist free-staters इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड and pro-slavery settlers from neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
Thus, the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in इसके जल्दी दिनों as ये शक्तियां collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
The abolitionists आखिरकार prevailed और on जनवरी 29, 1861, Kansas entered the Union as a free state.
After the Civil युद्ध, the जनसांख्यिकी of कान्सास grew rapidly, when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, Kansas is one of the most productive agricultural राज्य, producing ऊँची yields of गेहूं, sorghum and sunflowers.
कान्सास is the 15th most extensive and the 33rd most populous of the 50 United States.
मनोविज्ञान is an अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन that involves the scientific study of mental functions and behaviors.
Psychology has the immediate goal of समझना individuals और समूह by दोनो establishing general principles and researching specific cases, and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
In this field, a professional or researcher is called a psychologist और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior, while also exploring the physiological और neurobiological प्रक्रियाओं कि underlie निश्चित संज्ञानात्मक कृत्यों and behaviors.
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, attention, emotion, phenomenology, motivation, brain functioning, व्यक्तित्व, बर्ताव, और interpersonal relationships.
Psychologists of diverse stripes also consider the बेहोश दिमाग.
Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in opposition, to employing अनुभवजन्य और निगमनात्मक विधि, some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques.
Psychology has been described as a `` हब विज्ञान '', with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the social sciences, natural sciences, medicine, and the humanities, such as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health समस्याएं, it is भी निर्देशित towards समझना और solving problems in many different spheres of human activity.
The majority of psychologists are शामिल in कुछ दयालु of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes और बर्ताव, और typically कार्य in university psychology departments or teach in other academic settings ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in industrial and organizational जमावट, or in अन्य क्षेत्रों ऐसे as इंसान विकास और वृद्धावस्था, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13, 1743 ( April 2, 1743 O.S. ) – July 4, 1826 ) was an American founding पिता, the प्रिंसिपल लेखक of the घोषणा of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he served in the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, representing वर्जिनिया and then served as a wartime Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ).
Just after the war ended, इससे mid-1784 जेफरसन served as a diplomat, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the संयुक्त राज्य मंत्री to France.
Jefferson was the first United States Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
With his close friend James Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican Party, and subsequently resigned इससे वॉशिंगटन 's cabinet.
Elected Vice President in 1796, जब he आए in दूसरी to जॉन एडम्स of the Federalists, Jefferson opposed Adams and with Madison secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts.
Elected president in what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800, he oversaw the purchase of the vast louisiana territory इससे फ़्रांस ( 1803 ), और भेजा the लुईस and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west.
His second term was beset with troubles at home, such as the विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of उसके पूर्व Vice President Aaron Burr.
With escalating trouble with Britain who was चुनौतीपूर्ण अमरीकी neutrality and threatening shipping at sea, he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade.
In 1803, President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the louisiana territory वेस्ट of the Mississippi River, in order to open lands for eventual American settlers.
A नेता in the आत्मज्ञान, जेफरसन थी a बहुश्रुत who spoke five languages fluently and was deeply interested in science, invention, architecture, religion and philosophy, interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency.
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation निकट charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, which he named Monticello.
While not a notable orator, जेफरसन थी a skilled writer and corresponded with many influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life.
Though जेफरसन स्वामित्व अनेक स्लेव, he opposed the संस्था सब उसके जीवन and consequently treated and took care of them very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers.
चूंकि 1802 इतिहासकारों और others have been divided over the controversy of whether Jefferson was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
इतिहासकारों हैं भी in disagreement with how much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson signed into law a bill that banned the importation of स्लेव into the United States.
After Martha Jefferson, उसके बीवी of ग्यारह सालो, died in 1782, जेफरसन remained a widower for the rest of his life ; their marriage produced six children, of whom two survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson has been criticized by many modern day विद्वानों over the समस्या of गुलामी, he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by Steven Van Zandt, produced by Van Zandt and Arthur बेकर और अंकित by कलाकारों संयुक्त विरूद्ध रंगभेद to convey विपक्ष to the South African policy of apartheid.
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City, a resort which was स्तिथ in bantustan of bophuthatswana, एक of a क्रमांक of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population.
This page is a list of वर्ण in the पुलिस Academy film and television series.
Bill Russell won 11 championships साथ the बोस्टन Celtics.
This is a list of NBA खिलाड़ी with most championships won as a player.
The National Basketball संघ ( एनबीए ) is a प्रमुख पेशेवर basketball league in North America.
It was founded in 1946 as the बास्केट Association of America ( BAA ).
The league adopted its current name at the प्रारंभ of the जब it मिलाया साथ the नेशनल बास्केट League ( NBL ).
The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA and the निष्कर्ष of the खेल 's postseason.
The winning team of the श्रेणी receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy.
Players from the winning team usually receive championship बजती इससे the टोली honoring उनके योगदान.
However, in some rare अवसर, the टीमों opted to दिया अन्य commemorative items, such as wrist watches, instead of rings.
The number of championships जीती by एनबीए सुपरस्टार is often used as a measurement of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the most एनबीए championships जीती साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान उसके 13-year playing career.
He won his first championship with the Boston Celtics in उसके रुकी साल.
afterwards, he went on to win 10 championships in the next 12 years, including eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966.
He won the last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, Sam Jones, won 10 championships इससे 1959 to 1969, the second most in NBA history.
चार सेल्टिक्स खिलाड़ी, tom heinsohn, K. C. Jones, Satch Sanders and John Havlicek, won eight championships each.
Two other सेल्टिक्स, जिम loscutoff and Frank Ramsey, won seven championships each.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Michael Jordan and scottie pippen, जीती छह championships each.
Jordan and Pippen are members of the शिकागो bulls team who won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s.
Robert Horry and John Salley are the only players to have won the championships साथ तीन different teams.
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the सैन अंतोनियो स्पर्स, जबकि salley जीती चार championships साथ the Detroit Pistons, the Bulls and the Lakers.
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only खिलाड़ी to जीत दो championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, जबकि केर जीती लगातार championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
सटीकता indicates निकटता of मापन results to the true value, precision to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a मापन प्रणाली is the उपाधि of closeness of measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true ) value.
The precision of a measurement system, also called reproducibility or repeatability, is the degree to which दोहराया माप अंतर्गत अपरिवर्तित शर्तें दिखाएँ the वही परिणाम.
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, they are deliberately contrasted in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the scientific method.
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise, precise लकिन नहीं सटीक, neither, or both.
For example, if an experiment contains a systematic error, तब increasing the नमूना आकार generally increases precision but does not improve accuracy.
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate string of results from the flawed प्रयोग.
Eliminating the systematic error improves सटीकता लकिन करता नहीं बदलें परिशुद्धता.
A मापन प्रणाली is designated valid if it is both accurate and precise.
Related terms include bias ( non- random or निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or factors unrelated to the independent variable ) and error ( random variability ).
The terminology is also लागू to अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that is, values obtained by a computational procedure from observed data.
In addition to accuracy and precision, measurements may also have a measurement resolution, which is the smallest change in the underlying शारीरिक quantity that produces a response in the measurement.
In the case of full reproducibility, ऐसे as जब rounding a क्रमांक to a representable floating point number, the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand, so it is used as a माप लिये the सापेक्ष सटीकता साथ which an arbitrary number can be represented.
Fuck in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
The origin of the word is अस्पष्ट.
It is usually considered to be पहला attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा, a क्रिया, an adjective or an adverb.
There are many common phrases which make use of the word, as well as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
एनिमेटेड, color-coded map showing the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention and model, some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example, Eurasia is most often subdivided into यूरोपीय और एशिया ( रेड शेड्स ), जबकि उत्तर और दक्षिण अमेरिका हैं sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ).
A continent is one of several बहुत विशाल landmasses on Earth.
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia, अफ़्रीकी, उत्तर अमेरिका, दक्षिण अमेरिका, अंटार्कटिक, Europe, and Australia.
In geology, महाद्वीपों are described by means of tectonic plates.
थाली विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम and study of the movement, collision and division of continents, earlier known as continental drift.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film about a group of भूमिगत मोटरसाइकिल drag racers.
It stars Laurence Fishburne, Djimon hounsou, डेरेक Luke, Meagan Good, and Larenz Tate and is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood.
It also features Lisa Bonet, Orlando जोन्स, बच्चा चट्टान और Vanessa Bell Calloway.
For the Steel पैंथर सोंग, see Feel the Steel.
Community property is a marital property regime that originated in civil विधि jurisdictions और is now also found in some common law jurisdictions.
The states of the United States कि recognize जातियाँ property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system, which itself was inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths.
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली of acquests और gains, जिससे replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
Map of the United States with community प्रॉपर्टी राज्य highlighted in रेड.
In addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a separate प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits युगल to ऑप्ट into a जातियाँ property arrangement.
In a community property jurisdiction, most property acquired during the marriage ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment or death.
Joint स्वामित्व is automatically presumed by विधि in the अनुपस्थिति of specific evidence that would point to a contrary conclusion for a particular piece of property.
Division of community property may take place by मद, by splitting सब items or by value.
In some jurisdictions, ऐसे as California, a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute, meaning that the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a divorce court may decree an `` निष्पक्ष वितरण `` of जातियाँ property, which may result in an unequal division of such.
In non-community property states property may be divided by निष्पक्ष distribution.
Generally speaking, the property that each partner brings into the विवाह or receives by तोहफा, bequest or मक्कारी दौरान विवाह is called separate property ( i.e., not community property ).
See प्रभाग of property.
प्रभाग of जातियाँ debts may not be the same as division of community property.
For example, in California, community property is required to be divided `` equally '' जबकि जातियाँ कर्ज़ is जरूरी to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage is the separate property of that spouse, unless the प्रॉपर्टी is `` transmuted '' into जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी.
The rules for इस vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
the ड्यूक और Duchess of Cambridge waving to the crowd at The Mall shortly after the wedding.
The wedding of Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and कैथरीन मिडलटन took प्लेस on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
The groom, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, is the eldest son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and is second in the line of succession to the British Throne and the thrones of fifteen other राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
the बहू, कैथरीन `` केट '' मिडलटन is the ज्येष्ठ of three children of Michael and Carole Middleton of Bucklebury, Berkshire.
The Dean of Westminster, John Hall, presided at the सेवा ; the archbishop of canterbury, rowan विलियम्स, conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres, the Bishop of London, preached the sermon ; and a reading was given by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's बेहतरीन man थी उसके bhai, प्रिंस Harry, while the bride 's sister, Pippa, was maid of honour.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's और दूल्हे 's परिवारों, as खूब as अनेक foreign royals, diplomats, and the couple 's chosen personal guests.
After the रस्म, the युगल बना the परंपरागत appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to the throne, the wedding was not a full state occasion and many details were बाएँ to the युगल to decide, ऐसे as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
प्रिंस विलियम and Kate Middleton met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 October 2010 थी घोषित on 16 नवम्बर 2010.
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much media attention, being compared in many ways with the 1981 विवाह of विलियम 's parents.
The occasion was a public holiday in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्रदर्शित अनेक ceremonial aspects, including use of the state carriages and roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry.
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; संगठनों और होटल आयोजित कार्यक्रम आरपार कनाडा, over 5,000 street parties were held throughout the United Kingdom, and one million people lined the route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of लाखो अधिक around the world, including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel.
In the United Kingdom, television audiences peaked at 26.3 million viewers, with a कुल of 36.7 लाख watching भाग of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an American टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व, टेलीविज़न मेजबान, fashion model, and actress.
Minnillo was also named मिस टीन यूएसए in 1998.
She has been a New York -based correspondent लिये entertainment tonight और hosted Total Request Live on MTV.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity located at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which has two opposable thumbs on each `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably समान to इंसान फिंगरप्रिंट ) हैं प्रायः वर्णित as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating the पर्यावरण, प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो सकल मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ).
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the देह, हैं the richest सोर्स of tactile feedback, and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands.
Like other paired organs ( eyes, feet, legs ), each हाथ is dominantly नियंत्रित by the opposing दिमाग गोलार्ध, so that handedness, or the preferred hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil, reflects individual brain functioning.
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — लिये उदाहरण, in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand.
the इंसान हाथ रै 27 हड्डियों, not including the sesamoid bones which number varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, इंटरमीडिएट और distal ) of the fingers.
The metacarpals are the bones that connects the उंगलियाँ और the wrist.
Each human hand has 5 metacarpals और 8 carpal bones.
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team and former faction most notably active in संसार कुश्ती federation/entertainment between 1998 और 2001 और लिये a छोटी time in 2004.
Basic digital alarm clock बगैर a रेडियो.
The mark in the top-left of the प्रदर्शक indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 radio alarm क्लॉक ( सोनी digimatic 8fc-59w ) with an early mechanical-digital display.
A digital clock is a type of clock that displays the time digitally, i.e. in numerals or other symbols, as opposed to an एनालॉग क्लॉक, जहाँ the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.
Digital clocks are often associated with electronic drives, but the `` digital '' description refers तभी to the प्रदर्शक, नहीं to the drive mechanism.
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, but `` clockwork '' mechanisms with डिजिटल प्रदर्शक हैं rare. )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light समय स्तर '' ) on the टेलीविज़न मीनार Rheinturm Düsseldorf, Germany.
Family guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
परिवार guy is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख voice actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, एलेक्स borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
पुनरावर्ती आवाज़ अभिनेताओं शामिल पैट्रिक warburton, Adam West, John G. Brennan, Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide voices लिये multiple characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various अक्षर personalities on the show, draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture.
Family Guy characters have been निभाई by अधिक than one actor, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an एनी पुरस्कार लिये voicing मेग griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane रै भी won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production, though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here show the एवोल्यूशन of the खेल 's कलाकृति and designs in the United States from 1935–2005.
the इतिहास of the फलक खेल एकाधिकार can be traced back to the early 20th century.
the earliest ज्ञात design was by the American, Elizabeth Magie, patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle, namely the georgist अवधारणा of a सिंगल land value tax.
a श्रेणी of फलक खेल यहूद विकसित from 1906 through the 1930s that involved the buying and selling of land and the development of that land.
By 1934, a board game had been created much like the संस्करण of एकाधिकार बेची by पार्कर Brothers and its related companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several people, mostly in the Midwestern संयुक्त राज्य और निकट the ईस्ट coast, contributed to the game 's design and evolution.
By the 1970s, the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed in the खेल 's निर्देश लिये अनेक सालो, in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार, and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007.
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली game was created in the 1800s, and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game, and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers.
Also in the 1970s, Professor Ralph anspach, जो था खुद प्रकाशित a board game intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies and trust busting, fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
Through the research of Anspach and others, much of the early history of the खेल थी `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady, author of the 1974 book The Monopoly Book : Strategy and Tactics of the संसार 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल over the actual history of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975.
Because of the lengthy court process, सहित appeals, the विधिक औकात of पार्कर Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of Parker Brothers, as do its विशिष्ट डिज़ाइन तत्व.
At the conclusion of the court case, the game 's logo and graphic design elements became भाग of a larger एकाधिकार brand, licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety of items through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the फलक खेल 's जल्दी इतिहास in the 1970s और 1980s, and several books and journal articles on the subject, Hasbro ( Parker Brothers ' current parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012.
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone अन्य than darrow in materials published or sponsored by them, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, first held in the early 1970s, continue to the present, with the next संसार चैंपियनशिप संभावित अनुसूचित for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off board games and card games appeared on दोनो पहलू of the अटलांटिक समंदर.
In 1989, the पहला of अनेक video game and computer game editions was published.
Since 1994, many official variants of the game, based on locations other than Atlantic City, New Jersey ( the official u.S. सेटिंग ) or लंदन ( the आधिकारिक राष्ट्रमंडल सेटिंग, excepting Canada ), have been published by Hasbro or its licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the रंग योजना और कुछ of the gameplay of the standard U.S. Edition of the game to match the UK Edition, although the U.S. standard edition maintains the Atlantic City property names.
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr. Monopoly '' character a 3-D computer-generated dekh, जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम अपनाया by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves and Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's एकाधिकार : the आचमन संस्करण by जीतना चालें खेल, in संस्करण उत्पादित directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ).
In baseball, a sacrifice fly is a batted ball कि satisfies चार criteria:
There are कम than दो outs when the ball is hit.
The ball is hit to the आउटफील्ड ( fair or foul ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the बैटर होता have महरूम आउट if नहीं लिये an गलती or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ).
a धावक who is already on base scores on the play.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to स्कोर a चलाएं, जबकि sacrificing उसके अपना क्षमता to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a u.S. state located in the Midwestern United States.
मिनेसोटा थी carved आउट of the पूर्वी half of the Minnesota Territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 झीलों '', the राज्य 's name comes from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
Those waters, together with वनों, पार्क, और wilderness क्षेत्रों, प्रस्ताव निवासियों and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive and the 21st most populous of the u.S. राज्य.
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the minneapolis–saint पॉल महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( ज्ञात as the `` जुड़वा शहरों '' ), the center of transportation, business, industry, education, government and home to an internationally known arts community.
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies अभी दिए over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast, now cleared, farmed and settled ; and the less populated North Woods, used for mining, forestry, and recreation.
Minnesota is ज्ञात लिये इसके अपेक्षाकृत मिश्रित social and political orientations, and has a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest राज्य, and has a highly literate population.
the विशाल बहुमत of residents are of Scandinavian and German descent.
The state is known as a center of scandinavian American culture.
Ethnic विविधता रै increased in recent decades.
Substantial influxes of Asian, African, and Latin American immigrants have joined the वंशजों of यूरोपीय settlers and the original Native American inhabitants.
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ), often a government department, निगम, न्यास or विश्वास, to a, प्रायः ( लकिन नहीं सदा ) a nonprofit एंटिटी, शैक्षणिक institution, business or an individual.
In order to प्राप्त a ग्रान्ट, कुछ form of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required.
Most grants are made to निधि a विशिष्ट प्रोजेक्ट और आवश्यकता some level of compliance and reporting.
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a संभावित funder, either on the आवेदक 's अपना पहल or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder.
Other अनुदान can be दिए to individuals, ऐसे as पीड़ितों of natural disasters or individuals who seek to open a small business.
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some रूप of tax-exempt status, be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government.
For example, tiered funding for a freeway are बहुत विशाल अनुदान negotiated at government policy level.
However smaller अनुदान may be provided by a government agency ( e.g. municipal government ).
Project-related funding involving governments, कारोबार, समुदायों, और individuals is often arranged by application either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो, 57co साथ a half-life of 271.79 दिनों, 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days, and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 18 hours and the majority of these have half-lives कि हैं कम than 1 दूसरी.
This element also has 11 meta states, all of which have half-lives less than 15 मिनट्स.
The isotopes of cobalt range in परमाणु वज़न from 47Co to 75Co.
The primary decay mode for isotopes साथ परमाणु द्रव्यमान ईकाई मान कम than कि of the सबसे abundant stable समस्थानिक, 59co, is electron capture and the primary mode of decay for those of greater than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay.
The primary decay उत्पाद पहले 59co हैं आयरन isotopes and the primary products after are nickel isotopes.
मानक परमाणु mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who Moved My चीज ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, प्रकाशित in 1998, is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर जॉनसन लिखा in the style of a parable or business fable.
It describes change in one 's work and life, and four typical reactions to said change by two mice and two `` littlepeople '', दौरान उनके हंट for cheese.
A New York Times business bestseller since रिलीज, जो स्थानांतरित My Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost five years and खर्च over 200 सप्ताह on प्रकाशक Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list.
It has sold more than 26 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी in 37 languages and remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
Nikita sergeyevich khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War.
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet संघ इससे 1953 to 1964, और as अध्यक्ष of the Council of Ministers, or Premier, from 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union, for backing the progress of the early Soviet space program, and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy.
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964, replacing him with Leonid brezhnev as पहला सचिव and Alexei Kosygin as Premier.
Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894, बंद to the present-day किनारा between Russia and Ukraine.
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth, and during the रूसी सिविल War was a political commissar.
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich, he worked उसके रास्ता up the Soviet hierarchy.
He supported Joseph स्टालिन 's purges, and approved thousands of arrests.
In 1939, Stalin sent him to govern युक्त, और he जारी the purges there.
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War ( पूर्वी सामने of संसार युद्ध ii ), khrushchev थी again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
Khrushchev was present at the bloody defense of Stalingrad, a फैक्ट he took ग्रेट अभिमान in throughout his life.
After the war, he returned to Ukraine before होने recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the power struggle triggered by स्टालिन 's मौत in 1953, Khrushchev, after several years, emerged victorious.
On February 25, 1956, at the 20th Party Congress, he वितरित the `` रहस्य वाक, '' denouncing स्टालिन 's purges और ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union.
His domestic policies, aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary citizens, were often ineffective, especially in the area of agriculture.
Hoping eventually to rely on मिसाइलें लिये नेशनल रक्षा, khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years of the Cold War, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, विशेषकर by उसके उभरते विरोधियों, जो चुपचाप रोज़ in शक्ति and deposed him in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of सोवियत शक्ति struggles, लकिन थी pensioned बंद with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs were smuggled to the West and प्रकाशित in भाग in 1970.
khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट.
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the ligament of Treitz, which connects the fourth portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm निकट the splenic flexure of the कोलन.
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies, and require admission to हॉस्पिटल लिये urgent diagnosis and management.
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy, अपर gi hemorrhage is now usually treated without surgery.
World population estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
वास्तविक अंकित population figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world जनसांख्यिकी is the total number of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were देखी briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, जबकि मौतों number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना supplies, and energy resources.
Philips Lumileds Lighting कम्पनी is the निर्माता of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a now a fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग of Philips Lighting.
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of दिनों in प्रत्येक month of the Gregorian Calendar.
प्रत्येक projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
A mnemonic (, with a silent `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is any learning technique that aids information retention.
mnemonics उद्देश्य to अनुवाद सूचना into a form that the human brain can retain better than its original form.
Even the process of applying this conversion might already aid the transfer of सूचना to long-term मेमोरी.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form, such as short poems, acronyms, or यादगार वाक्यांश, लकिन mnemonics can also be for other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the अवलोकन कि the इंसान दिमाग अधिक easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, physical, sexual, humorous, or otherwise 'relatable ' information, rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information.
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of memory '' और is सम्बन्धित to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ), the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology.
Both of these words are निकला इससे μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` remembrance, memory ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity यहूद सबसे प्रायः माना in the context of what is today known as the Art of memory.
Ancient Greeks and Romans विशिष्ट between दो प्रकार of मेमोरी : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory.
The former is inborn, and is the one that everyone uses automatically and without thinking.
The कृत्रिम मेमोरी in contrast has to be trained and developed through the learning and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques.
Mnemonic systems are special techniques or strategies consciously used to improve memory, it helps employ information already भंडारित in long-term मेमोरी to make memorization an easier task.
President Bush signing the No चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम at हैमिल्टन h.s. in Hamilton, Ohio.
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States Act of Congress कि is a reauthorization of the elementary और द्वितीयक Education Act, which included Title I, the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students.
NCLB supports standards-based शिक्षा सुधार आधारित on the आधार कि setting high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The Act requires राज्य to develop आकलन in basic skills.
States must give these assessments to all students at select grade levels in order to प्राप्त संघीय स्कूल funding.
the अधिनियम करता नहीं assert a नेशनल achievement standard ; standards are set by each individual state.
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual testing, annual academic progress, रपट ताश, टीचर योग्यता, और funding changes.
The विधेयक passed in the u.S. Congress with bipartisan support.
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, चलित by अल्बर्ट namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often बस referred to as a पिकअप, is a light motor vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup, such as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड, or bakkie in South Africa.
विशाल पिकअप ट्रक हैं somewhat rare in Europe, where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred मध्यकालीन घोड़ा साथ मेहराबदार गर्दन, परिष्कृत सिर और elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, निर्माण और नस्ल इससे the modern horse, and were, on average, smaller.
They were also more central to society than their आधुनिक counterparts, होने अनिवार्य for war, agriculture, and transport.
Consequently, विशिष्ट प्रकार of horse developed, many of which have no modern equivalent.
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any analysis of the medieval horse, शोधकर्ताओं भी need to consider वृत्तचित्र ( दोनो written and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence.
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by breed, but rather by use.
This led them to be described, for example, as `` chargers `` ( war horses ), `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ), कार्ट घोड़े or packhorses.
Reference is also given to their place of origin, such as `` स्पेनी घोड़े, '' लकिन whether इस referred to एक नस्ल or अनेक is अनजान.
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval भाषाएं, जहाँ अनेक words can be used for one thing ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by one word ).
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' हैं प्रयुक्त interchangeably ( भी भीतर एक दस्तावेज़ ), and where one epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment, often introduced from other संस्कृतियों, अनुमत लिये significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
In particular, improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the stirrup, horseshoe and horse collar were significant advances in मध्यकालीन society.
Consequently, the assumptions and theories developed by इतिहासकारों हैं नहीं निर्णायक, और बहस स्टिल rages on many issues, such as the breeding or size of the horse, and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject.
The Music Man is a musical with book, music, and गीत by मेरेडिथ willson, आधारित on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey.
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill, जो मुद्राएँ as a लड़कों ' बैंड आयोजक और नेता and sells band instruments and uniforms to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash.
In River City, Iowa, prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him, but when Hill helps उसके younger bhai overcome उसके भय of सोशल interactions due to his lisp, Marian begins to fall in love with Harold.
Harold, in turn falling for Marian, risks being caught to win उसके.
In 1957, the show became a hit on Broadway, winning five टोनी पुरस्कार, सहित Best Musical, and running for 1,375 performances.
The cast album won the पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये `` बेहतरीन असली Cast Album '' and was number one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks.
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 film adaptation and a 2003 टेलीविज़न रीमेक.
It अक्सर is उत्पादित by both professional and amateur theater companies.
Surveyor 's व्हील
A surveyor 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a यंत्र लिये measuring distance.
Largest non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the rub ' al खली ( `` खाली quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
makhtesh रेमन, Negev desert, Israel
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry क्युकी of कम वर्षा amounts ( वर्षण ), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas.
रेगिस्तान can भी be described as areas where more water is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert plants must have special adaptations to जीवित with this little water.
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of बरसात ( precipitation ) each year.
Semideserts or steppes हैं regions जिससे receive between and.
In the Köppen climate वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान हैं classed as bwh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the Thornthwaite climate वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान would be classified as arid megathermal climates.
World War I ( WWI ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
it थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In नवम्बर the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian और Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल Europe was redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations थी formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध II.
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 सोंग originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper.
It was the first major single released by lauper as a सोलो कलाकार और the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual.
Lauper’s version gained मान्यता as a feminist गान and promoted by an award-winning video.
It has been covered on either an album or in live concert by over 30 अन्य कलाकारों.
The सिंगल थी lauper 's भेदन hit, reaching # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
It remains one of Lauper 's signature songs and was a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग दौरान the era of its release, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top Music Videos '' '' and the `` VH1 : 100 महानतम वीडियो '' सूचियाँ क्रमित the सोंग at # 22, # 39 and # 45, respectively.
The song received a Grammy Award नामांकन लिये रिकार्ड of the साल और बेहतरीन Female Pop Vocal Performance.
View of defibrillator electrode position और अवस्थिति.
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the प्रभावित heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the देह 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning that lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक with little, or in some cases no training at all.
The Cato संस्थान is an अमरीकी libertarian think tank headquartered in Washington, D.C.
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard, ed क्रेन और चार्ल्स koch, अध्यक्ष of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries, Inc..
In July 1976, the नाम was changed to the Cato Institute.
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index, Cato is the 6th most influential US based think tank, रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक Policy and 2nd in Social Policy.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the understanding of public policies based on the principles of limited government, free बाज़ार, व्यक्तिगत liberty, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate applicable policy proposals that create free, open, and civil societies in the संयुक्त राज्य and throughout the world. ''
Cato scholars were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on several issues, including the Iraq War, civil liberties, education, agriculture, energy policy, and excessive government spending.
On other issues, they supported Bush administration पहलों, सबसे notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह, सोशल Security, global warming, tax policy, and immigration.
During the 2008 U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, Cato scholars criticized both major-party candidates, John McCain and Barack Obama.
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration, such as fiscal stimulus, healthcare सुधार, विदेशी नीति, और the युद्ध on दवाएँ, जबकि supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy.
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by आयरिश लेखक ब्राम स्टोकर.
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula, the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to इंग्लैण्ड, और the बैटल between ड्रैकुला और a छोटी समूह of men and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula has been assigned to अनेक साहित्यिक जाति सहित पिशाच literature, horror fiction, the gothic novel and invasion literature.
the अनोखा छू on विषयवस्तु ऐसे as the भूमिका of महिलाओं in Victorian culture, sexual conventions, immigration, colonialism, and post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did not इफ़तेरा the पिशाच, he पारिभाषित इसके आधुनिक रूप, and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical, film and television interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe, and is from the श्रेणी of children 's novels and movies.
It is an extremely rough but very popular semi-contact sport, निभाई by wizards और witches.
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks, using four गेंदें और छह elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य, तीन on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the position that संघ फ़ुटबॉल holds as a globally popular sport.
The sport is monumental throughout the wizarding world.
Harry plays an important position for his house team at Hogwarts : he is the seeker और becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
Regional and international competitions are उल्लेखित throughout the श्रेणी.
In प्याला of आग, quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament, but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ), to capture a उड़ती कुंजी in पारस 's स्टोन, और on दो कुंजी अवसरों in deathly hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's Diadem, and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air.
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks, the nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt, both of which are destroyed by the series ' end.
The game has been adopted in the real संसार in the रूप of मगलू Quidditch.
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United राज्य consisting of two houses : the lower house known as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate.
कॉंग्रेस meets in the कैपिटल in Washington, D.C.
Both representatives and सीनेटरों हैं chosen through direct election.
Congress has a total of 535 voting सदस्यों : 435 सदस्यों in the House of Representatives and 100 members in the Senate.
Members of the House of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year शर्तें representing the people of a district.
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by population using the United States Census results, each state in the union having at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि in the House of Representatives.
Regardless of population, प्रत्येक of the 50 राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term.
The terms are staggered so every two सालो लगभग one-third of the Senate is up for election.
Each staggered group of one-third of the सीनेटरों हैं पुकारा 'classes '.
No state of the United राज्य रै दो senators from the same class.
Most incumbents seek re-election, और उनके ऐतिहासिक likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
In August 2012, a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s approval rating amongst अमेरिकी थी at 10 %, मिलान a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the title of a song लिखा by जॉय + रोरी 's रोरी Lee Feek, Wynn Varble, and Don Poythress, and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin.
It was released in August 2009 as कोर्बिन 's डेब्यू सिंगल और is शामिल on his self-titled debut album.
in अप्रैल 2010, the सोंग पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the country music charts, making Corbin the first male solo artist in seven years to send a debut single to Number One.
It has महरूम certified Gold by the RIAA.
The ब्लैकबेरी is a लकीर of बेतार handheld devices and services designed and marketed by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The first BlackBerry device, an email पेजर, थी released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices, the Z10 and Q10, were announced on January 30, 2013.
The user interface varies by model ; most feature a शारीरिक QWERTY keyboard, while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
A BlackBerry can shoot video, take photos, play म्यूज़िक, और perform ऑनलाइन functions such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also send and receive push email and तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of security through on-device message encryption, and are designed to function as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging features, with the most popular being the proprietary BlackBerry मेसेंजर सेवा.
The ब्लैकबेरी playbook is a tablet computer offered by the company.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010 और the 200 millionth स्मार्टफोन was shipped in September quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011, बनाना इसके निर्माता the छठे सबसे लोकप्रिय device maker ( 25 % of mobile device sales are smartphones ).
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is available in 91 countries worldwide on over 500 मोबाईल सेवा ऑपरेटर using विभिन्न mobile technologies.
as of सितंबर 2012, there were eighty million subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the caribbean और लैटिन अमेरिका had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones worldwide, with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
BlackBerry, iPhone, Android, and Windows Phone हैं माना the चार प्रमुख स्मार्टफोन brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States, which alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of क्रैक कोका.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's New World College Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year. ''
An example of a demand वक्र shifting.
The shift from D1 To D2 means an increase in demand with consequences लिये the other variables
In economics, the demand curve is the आलेख depicting the संबंध between the दाम of a निश्चित कमोडिटी and the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price.
It is a graphic representation of a माँग अनुसूची.
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the demand curve of every individual consumer : the व्यक्तिगत मांगे at प्रत्येक दाम हैं added together.
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are प्रायः संयुक्त साथ सप्लाई वक्र to अनुमान the संतुलन दाम ( the दाम at जिससे विक्रेता साथ हैं willing to बेचें the वही राशि as खरीदार together are willing to buy, also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market.
In a monopolistic market, the demand curve facing the monopolist is बस the मार्केट माँग वक्र.
historia
by nikolaos gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that relates to पास्ट कार्यक्रम as खूब as the डिस्कवरी, संग्रहण, संगठन, and presentation of information about these events.
The term includes cosmic, भूगर्भिक, और सशुल्क इतिहास, but is often generically implied to mean human history.
Scholars who write about इतिहास हैं पुकारा historians.
History can also refer to the अकादमिक अनुशासन जिससे उपयोग a कथा to जाँचें and analyse a sequence of past events, and objectively determine the patterns of cause and effect that determine them.
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and इसके उपयोगिता by discussing the पढ़ाई of the discipline as an end in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular culture, but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends, because they do not support the `` disinterested छानबीन '' जरूरी of the अनुशासन of history.
Events occurring prior to written रिकार्ड हैं considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek इतिहासकार is माना भीतर the पश्चिमी परंपरा to be the `` पिता of history '', and, along with his contemporary Thucydides, helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history.
Their work continues to be पढ़ा आज और the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused Thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing.
In the Eastern tradition, a state chronicle the वसन्त और पतझड़ annals थी ज्ञात to be compiled from as early as 722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE texts survived.
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of history which have evolved over the सदियां और continue to बदलें आज.
The modern पढ़ाई of इतिहास is wide-ranging, and includes the study of specific regions and the study of certain topical or thematical elements of historical investigation.
Often history is taught as part of primary and द्वितीयक शिक्षा, और the अकादमिक study of history is a major discipline in University studies.
मैल्कम x ( ; may 19, 1925february 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक अमेरिकी.
detractors अभियुक्त उसे of उपदेश racism, black supremacy, and violence.
He रै महरूम पुकारा एक of the महानतम and most influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, और at तनिक एक of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother was placed in a mental hospital, और he थी लगाई in a श्रेणी of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for breaking और प्रवेश.
In prison, Malcolm X became a member of the स्वदेश of islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of सफर in अफ़्रीकी और the मध्य East, he returned to the United States, where he founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of islam, he थी assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ with it, `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to work with civil rights leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th संयुक्त राज्य सचिव of the राजकोष.
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs, and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute, which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a क्लीनर पर्यावरण around the संसार, with an initial focus on the United States and China.
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware, which is presented to the अनुप्रयोग परत of the प्रणाली.
Virtual machines may be based on specifications of a hypothetical कंप्यूटर or emulate the कंप्यूटर वास्तुकला and functions of a real world computer.
मकड़ियों ( अनुक्रम araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are मिला विश्वव्यापी on प्रत्येक महाद्वीप मगर for Antarctica, and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, मकड़ियों do नहीं have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all their ganglia हैं fused into एक mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
मकड़ी webs vary widely in size, shape and the amount of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from, and are very similar to the सबसे आदिम surviving अनुक्रम, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the triassic काल, before.
A herbivorous प्रजाति, bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all other known species are predators, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a चौड़ी दायरा of रणनीति to कैप्चर शिकार : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, और वे liquidize उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a किस्में of जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species survive a few matings, सीमित मुख्यतः by their short life spans.
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care for their young, for example by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing खाना with them.
A minority of species are social, building communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges इससे precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although सबसे मकड़ियों सजीव लिये at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity.
जबकि the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to humans, scientists are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials, and spider silk genes have been inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to देखिए if ये can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, क्रूरता और creative powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional character and one of the two मादा लीड in the फॉक्स sitcom कि '70s दिखाएँ, appearing in all eight seasons.
Portrayed by Laura prepon, Donna is the love interest to Eric Forman.
US काउंटी household median income 2009.
मध्य US household income, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the आय of प्रत्येक निवासी over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, child support payments received, regular rental receipts, as well as any personal कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of आय received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has चूंकि महरूम चपटा और भी decreased recently.
u.S. मध्य household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme गरीबी in the संयुक्त राज्य, अर्थ households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be सम्बन्धित to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the use of household income remains among the सबसे widely स्वीकृत उपायों of आय.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
A registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, in United States business विधि, is a कारोबार or व्यक्तिगत designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons.
The registered agent 's address may also be where the state होगा भेजें the कागजी लिये the वार्षिक नवीकरण of the business entity 's charter.
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company, or ( more often ) a third पार्टी, ऐसे as the संगठन 's वकील or a service company.
Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a कम्पनी negatively.
दफ्तर लिये Emergency Management.
Office of युद्ध सूचना war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which they institute governments.
Fencing, is typically divided into Olympic fencing, Classical fencing and ऐतिहासिक तलवारबाजी,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil, सब्रे और épée.
Classical fencing uses the same three हथियार, but approaches fencing as a martial art.
Competitive Fencing is one of five sports जिससे रै महरूम प्रदर्शित at प्रत्येक एक of the modern Olympic Games, the other four being Athletics, Cycling, Swimming, and Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ), also called simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh.
It is the great extensor muscle of the घुटना, forming a विशाल मांसल mass which covers the front and sides of the femur.
The proper Latin plural form of the क्रियाशील quadriceps would be quadricipites.
In modern English usage, quadriceps is प्रयुक्त in दोनो एकवचन and plural.
The singular form quadricep, उत्पादित by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
RMS Titanic was a अंग्रेजों यात्री लाइनर कि sank in the उत्तर अटलांटिक Ocean on 15 April 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New York City, US.
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest peacetime मेरीटाइम आपदाओं in आधुनिक history.
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the समय of उसके maiden voyage.
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the White Star Line, and she was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews, who perished साथ the जलयान, as उसके नवल वास्तु.
On her maiden voyage, she carried 2,224 passengers and crew.
Under the command of Edward स्मिथ, उसके यात्री शामिल some of the wealthiest people in the world, as well as hundreds of emigrants from Great Britain and Ireland, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America.
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort and luxury, with an on-board gymnasium, swimming pool, libraries, high-class रेस्तरां और opulent cabins.
She also had a powerful wireless telegraph provided for the convenience of यात्री as खूब as लिये operational use.
Though she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight doors, वो lacked पर्याप्त lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly more than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage, and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, टाइटैनिक पुकारा at cherbourg in फ़्रांस and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the क्रासिंग और परिचय 375 मील ( 600 km ) south of Newfoundland, she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard side and खोली पाँच of उसके सोलह watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water.
Meanwhile, passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats, many of which were शुभारम्भ तभी partly loaded.
A disproportionate number of men were left सवार क्युकी of a `` महिलाओं और children first `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, she broke अलावा और foundered, साथ खूब over one thousand people still aboard.
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered, the Cunard liner RMS carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking, where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors.
The disaster was greeted with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge loss of life and the regulatory and operational असफलताओं कि था led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the United राज्य led to प्रमुख सुधार in maritime safety.
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at समुद्र ( solas ), जिससे स्टिल governs मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा today.
Additionally, several new wireless regulations were passed around the world in an effort to सीख इससे the अनेक missteps in बेतार संचार -- -which could have saved many more passengers.
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and were left destitute ; many families, particularly those of crew members from Southampton, खोया उनके प्राथमिक bread-winners.
They were helped by an outpouring of public सहानुभूति और charitable दान.
Some of the पुरूष survivors यहूद अभियुक्त of कायरता लिये leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the White Star Line 's chairman, J. Bruce Ismay, faced social ostracism for the rest of his life.
The wreck of the टाइटैनिक remains on the समुद्रतल, विभाजित in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of.
Since its discovery in 1985, हज़ारों of artefacts have been recovered and put on display at museums around the world.
Titanic रै become one of the most famous ships in history, her memory kept alive by numerous books, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials.
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the इंसान देह, सहित the पैर, जांघ और even the hip or gluteal region ; however, the precise definition in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
Legs are used for standing, walking, jumping, running, kicking, and समान क्रियाएँ, और constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This आलेख is परिचय the जनसांख्यिकी सुविधाएँ of the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million with a विकास रेट of 1.21 % प्रति annum ( 2009 figure ).
The population is relatively यंग साथ 26.6 % गिरना in the 0-14 age bracket.
according to the oecd/world बैंको जनसांख्यिकी statistics in Turkey the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750iL
बुइक Roadmaster
A full-size car is a marketing term प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका लिये an ऑटोमोबाइल larger than a mid-size car.
In the United राज्य, the epa uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born अप्रैल 11, 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor, singer, and dancer, known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both the stage and film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the अकादमी पुरस्कार, टोनी पुरस्कार and Golden Globe Award.
He also originated the role of George M. cohan in the musical George M !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical Wicked.
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything Goes as Moonface मार्टिन, और Chicago as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( o.s. कूच 5 ) – जून 28, 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman और राजनैतिक theorist, the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “Father of the constitution” लिये होने इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights.
He served as a politician much of उसके adult life.
After the constitution था महरूम drafted, Madison became one of the leaders in the movement to ratify it.
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay उत्पादित the federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the time, they would later be considered among the most important polemics in support of the Constitution.
He was also a delegate to the वर्जिनिया संवैधानिक ratifying सम्मेलन, और थी instrumental to the successful ratification effort in Virginia.
Like most of his contemporaries, Madison changed his political दृश्य दौरान उसके life.
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution, he favored a strong national government, though later he grew to favor stronger state governments, before settling between the दो extremes लेट in his life.
In 1789, Madison became a leader in the नई हाउस of Representatives, drafting many basic laws.
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the संविधान, और यूँ is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights ``.
मैडिसन worked closely with President George Washington to organize the new federal government.
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in 1791, मैडिसन और थामस जेफरसन व्यवस्थित कया they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), Madison पर्यवेक्षित the louisiana Purchase, which doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the presidency, he presided over renewed prosperity for several years.
As president ( 1809–17 ), बाद the विफलता of राजनयिक protests and a trade embargo against Great Britain, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition, he wanted to end the influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके भारतीय allies, whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an administrative दुःस्वप्न, as the संयुक्त राज्य था neither a दमदार फौज nor financial system ; as a result, he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military, as well as the national bank, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave समाज, he थी a slaveholder जो inherited उसके वृक्षारोपण known as Montpelier, and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated जनसांख्यिकी of स्लेव to be गिने for representation.
`` Roman 's बदला '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday.
It was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem, who is also featured in the song, और थी उत्पादित by swizz Beatz.
It was released exclusively on October 30, 2010 through the US iTunes Store, as a promotional रिलीज preceding the एल्बम 's release.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj, where many people felt the सोंग थी निर्देशित at लील ' किम और regarded around उसके जज्बात towards minaj 's वृद्धि to fame.
The song references minaj 's alter-ego, रोमन Zolanski, and Eminem 's alter-ego, Slim Shady.
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics, most of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
An official remix featuring minaj 's mentor, लील वेन, was released to the US iTunes Store on January 19, 2011.
The instrumental थी प्रयुक्त in the song 'Firing Squad ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G.
Hydraulic fluid होने poured.
हाइड्रोलिक fluids, भी पुकारा hydraulic liquids, are the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic machinery.
Common hydraulic fluids हैं आधारित on mineral oil or water.
Examples of equipment that might उपयोग हाइड्रोलिक fluids शामिल excavators और backhoes, hydraulic brakes, power steering systems, transmissions, garbage trucks, aircraft flight control systems, lifts, and industrial machinery.
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will work most efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक द्रव used has no compressibility
Mahindra ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra Tractors, the farm equipment division of महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा, builds and sources tractors that are sold worldwide across six continents.
Mahindra is also among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर manufacturers in the world.
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India, चीन और अमेरिका and a growing base in Australia.
The company builds more tractors in इण्डिया than any other manufacturer, and has the capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, m & m formed a संयुक्त venture साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate for the Indian market.
Armed with अभियान्त्रिकी, tooling और निर्माण know-how gained इससे इस relationship, M & M developed its first tractor, the B-275.
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest tractor companies in the world, and is number एक in बिक्री in इण्डिया - the largest tractor market in the world.
To expand into the growing tractor market in चीन, महिंद्रा acquired बहुमत stake in Jiangling.
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US, Mahindra USA announced its नई प्रायोजन in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट, जिससे is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet.
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson, Jr. महिंद्रा यूएसए, inc. घोषित a 17-race प्राथमिक और 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series.
With this sponsorship, Mahindra was the first Indian company to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
in 2008, महिंद्रा was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports team which ran the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series.
The POWER6 is a माइक्रोप्रोसेसर विकसित by IBM that implemented the Power ISA v.2.03.
When it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power microprocessor.
It is part of the eCLipz project, said to have a goal of converging IBM 's सर्वर हार्डवेयर where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The अमरीकी मध्य class is a social class in the United States.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use, contemporary social scientists have put आगे several, more or less congruent, theories on the American middle class.
Depending on class model used, the middle class may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the first major studies of the मध्य क्लास in अमेरिका थी श्वेत कॉलर : the अमरीकी मध्य Classes, published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of Hamilton College commonly divide the मध्य क्लास into two sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or पेशेवर मध्य class consisting of highly educated, salaried professionals and managers.
Constituting roughly one तीसरा of households is the lower middle class consisting mostly of semi-professionals, skilled craftsmen and lower-level management.
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of living, significant economic सुरक्षा, considerable कार्य स्वायत्तता और rely on उनके विशेषज्ञता to sustain themselves.
Members of the middle class belong to विविध groups which overlap with each other.
Overall, middle-class persons, especially upper-middle-class individuals, are characterized by conceptualizing, बनाना और परामर्श.
Thus, college education is one of the main indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the प्रकृति of middle-class occupations, middle class values tend to emphasize independence, adherence to intrinsic standards, valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity.
Politically more active than अन्य जनसांख्यिकी, college educated middle class professionals are split between the two major parties.
Income varies considerably इससे निकट the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income figures, however, do not always reflect class status and standard of living, as they are largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household size.
It is therefore possible for a large, dual-earner, lower middle class household to out-earn a small, one-earner, upper मध्य क्लास household.
The middle classes are very influential, as they encompass the majority of मतदाता, लेखक, teachers, journalists, and editors.
Most societal रुझान in the US originate within the middle classes.
The following is a list of Saturday रात्रि सजीव डाल सदस्यों, पास्ट and present.
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For Prime Time खिलाड़ी ''.
The original cast ( l to r ) : laraine न्युमैन, जॉन belushi, जेन कर्टिन, Gilda Radner, Dan Aykroyd, Garrett Morris, and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San फ्रांसिस्को भूकंप, remembered as एक of the worst natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant physical damage or destruction, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A disaster can be ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई tragic event stemming from events such as earthquakes, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to जीवन और प्रॉपर्टी और destroy the economic, social and cultural life of people.
in समकालीन academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
These risks are the product of a combination of दोनो hazard/s और vulnerability.
Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability होगा never become disasters, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters occur in developing countries, and losses due to natural disasters are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of GDP ) in developing देशों than in industrialized countries.
In computing, booting ( also known as booting up ) is the initial set of operations कि a कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs when electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized बाद होने turned बंद, और ends जब the computer is ready to perform its normal operations.
On modern general purpose computers, this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating and initializing peripheral devices, and then ढूंढना, लदान और starting an operating system.
Many computer systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a software command without cycling power, in what is known as a soft reboot, though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating system or runtime पर्यावरण लिये the कंप्यूटर after completion of the self-tests.
The computer पद बूट is short for bootstrap or bootstrap load and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls attention to the requirement कि, if सबसे तन्त्र is loaded onto a computer by other software already running on the computer, some mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
Early computers used a किस्में of ad-hoc विधि to मिलेंगी a छोटी program into memory to solve this problem.
The invention of integrated circuit read-only मेमोरी ( rom ) of विभिन्न प्रकार हल इस विरोधाभास by allowing computers to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased.
Growth in the क्षमता of rom रै अनुमत कभी more elaborate start up procedures to be implemented.
On general purpose computers, the boot process begins with the execution of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or read in another fashion.
in कुछ पुरानी कंप्यूटर, the initial program might have been the application to run, if no operating system was used, or the operating system.
In other computers, the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ), from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or, in some older computers, from a मीडियम ऐसे as punched ताश, punched टेप, or चुम्बकीय टेप in पुरानी कंप्यूटर, the शब्दकोष कोड of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it.
If the boot loader is limited in its size और capabilities, it may, instead, load a larger and more capable secondary boot loader, which would then load the operating system or runtime environment.
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot अनुक्रम to शुरू कामकाज और जब turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database management system that runs on लिनक्स, खिड़कियाँ, और a किस्में of Unix.
The database forked from borland 's खोलें सोर्स संस्करण of interbase in 2000, but since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten.
Outsourcing is the contracting out of an internal business process to a third-party organization.
The practice of contracting a business process out to a तीसरा पार्टी बल्कि than staffing it internally is common in the modern economy.
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the United States near the फेरे of the 21st सदी.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring employees और एसेट इससे एक कड़ to another, but not always.
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and domestic contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring, जिससे means relocating a business function to another country.
Financial savings from lower international मजदूर दरों is a बिग प्रेरणा for outsourcing/offshoring.
The विपरीत of आउटसोर्सिंग is पुकारा insourcing, which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration.
However, a business can provide a contract service to another business without necessarily insourcing कि कारोबार process.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ), a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood, semen, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or breast milk.
Within these bodily fluids, HIV is उपस्थित as दोनो free virus particles and virus within infected immune cells.
HIV infects vital cells in the human प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली ऐसे as हेल्पर t कोशिकाएं ( specifically cd4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral हत्या of संक्रमित कोशिकाएं, और हत्या of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the देह becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a fire स्टेशन in टोरंटो
A fireman 's pole ( भी पुकारा a स्लाइडिंग ध्रुव or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in fire stations, allowing firefighters responding to an alarm to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase.
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon, in Chicago, Illinois, although it is often incorrectly credited to the बोस्टन आग विभाग.
Mary Poppins is the title अक्षर of a श्रेणी of children 's books written by P. L. Travers.
Throughout the Mary Poppins series, which lasted from 1934 to 1988, Mary Shepard was the इलस्ट्रेटर और acted as a दूसरी author.
The books centre on a जादुई अंग्रेज़ी nanny, Mary Poppins.
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane, London, and into the Banks ' household to परवाह लिये their children.
Encounters with chimney sweeps, shopkeepers and various adventures follow until मरियम poppins abruptly पत्ते, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures take place over a कुल of eight books.
However, only the first three books विशेषता मरियम poppins arriving and leaving.
The बाद पाँच किताबे recount previously unrecorded adventures from her original three visits.
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the पार्क, `` वो can not forever arrive and depart. ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, Disney Theatrical produced a stage musical adaptation in the वेस्ट समाप्त थिएटर.
The stage musical थी transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3, 2013.
It has been highly कामयाब, as थी the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of age teen romantic drama film विकसित alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name.
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in her feature फिल्मी directorial डेब्यू and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie.
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus, Liam Hemsworth, and ग्रेग kinnear और फ़ॉलो a troubled किशोरावस्था as वो reconnects with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town.
The film is distributed by touchstone Pictures.
Sparks was approached to write both the film 's पटकथा and the novel.
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the पूर्णता of the novel, making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North Carolina like the novel, moved to जॉर्जिया बाद the राज्य था campaigned लिये months to host production.
Upon beginning उत्पादन in Tybee Island, Georgia and nearby Savannah, The Last Song became the first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18, 2009 with much of it occurring on the द्वीप 's beach and pier.
The Last Song was originally scheduled for wide release on जनवरी 8, 2010, लकिन was postponed to March 31, 2010.
Written simlish
Simlish is a fictional भाषा प्रदर्शित in EA Games ' Sim series of games.
It debuted in SimCopter, and has been especially prominent in The Sims, the Sims 2 and The Sims 3.
The सीम विकास टोली निर्मित the unique Simlish language by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian, French, Latin, Finnish, English, Fijian, Cebuano, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in simcity 4, simcity समाजों और simcity 2013, but far less frequently.
Civilized Creatures in spore can also be taught to speak Simlish.
It is भी प्रदर्शित to an extent in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf.
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game, but thought that using a real language would make it sound too repetitive and होता भी be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
Initially, inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II, Sims creator Will Wright and language expert Marc gimbel सुझाया experimenting साथ the Navajo language to create Simlish.
However, they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a `` language '' made up of gibberish शब्द कि could n't be translated, so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player.
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense भाषा '' turned आउट to be the सही विकास चुनाव, as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one.
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by voice actors Stephen kearin और gerri lawlor.
An example of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 IAE aircraft engine.
Step 1 : The UT जांच is लगाई on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected with the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ).
कदम 2 : Instrument settings are input.
Step 3 : The जांच is scanned over the blade root.
In this case, an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red line ( or फाटक ) indicates a शुभ ब्लेड ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack.
principle of ultrasonic testing.
LEFT : A probe sends a sound वेव into a परीक्षण material.
There are two indications, one from the आरंभिक पल्स of the जांच, और the second due to the back wall echo.
RIGHT : A defect creates a तीसरा indication और simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is संकल्पित by the ratio D/E
In ultrasonic परीक्षण ( ut ), बहुत छोटी अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials.
A common example is ultrasonic thickness measurement, which tests the thickness of the test ऑब्जेक्ट, लिये उदाहरण, to मॉनिटर pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on स्टील और अन्य धातुओं और alloys, हालांकि it can also be used on concrete, wood and composites, albeit with less resolution.
It is a form of non-destructive परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in many industries including aerospace, automotive and other transportation sectors.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( लैटिन : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ), is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean, haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues, causing a shortage of ऑक्सीजन और ग्लूकोज needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
Ischemia is generally caused by समस्याएं साथ रक्त बरतन, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
It भी अर्थात् लोकल रक्ताल्पता in a दिए भाग of a देह sometimes resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism ).
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the उपस्थिति of सब or भाग of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the सबसे आम chromosome तबदीली in humans.
It is typically associated with a delay in संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( दिमागी retardation, or mr ) और शारीरिक विकास, और a particular set of facial characteristics.
the average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is around 50, whereas young adults without the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR has historically been defined as an IQ नीचे 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with bas सिंड्रोम have a severe degree of intellectual disability.
Down syndrome is named after John Langdon Down, the British physician who described the सिंड्रोम in 1866.
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne dominique esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by dr. jérôme lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal स्क्रीनिंग.
pregnancies साथ इस diagnosis are often terminated.
The CDC estimates that about one of every 691 babies born in the संयुक्त राज्य प्रत्येक साल is born साथ Down syndrome.
Many children with Down syndrome are शिक्षित in नियमित स्कूल वर्ग while others require specialised educational facilities.
Some children graduate from high school, and, in the US, there are increasing अवसर लिये participating in post-secondary education.
Education and proper care has been shown to improve विशेषता of जीवन significantly.
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to कार्य at सशुल्क नियुक्ति in the जातियाँ, while others require a more sheltered work environment.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or रात्रि sweats if वे happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other causes, but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), known informally as the g.i. विधेयक, थी a विधि कि provided a दायरा of लाभ लिये returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
Benefits included low-cost mortgages, low-interest लोन to प्रारंभ a कारोबार or फार्म, नकदी भुगतान of tuition and living expenses to attend college, high school or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation.
It was available to every veteran who had been on क्रियाशील ड्यूटी दौरान the युद्ध सालो लिये at तनिक नब्बे दिनों और था not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
By the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I. Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities, and an additional 6.6 million प्रयुक्त ये लाभ लिये कुछ दयालु of प्रशिक्षण program.
Since the original 1944 law, the term has come to include other veteran लाभ कार्यक्रम निर्मित to assist दिग्गजों of subsequent युद्धों as well as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the G.I. Bill a major political success—especially in contrast to the उपचार of संसार युद्ध i veterans—and a प्रमुख योगदान to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth.
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal कि occurred in the संयुक्त राज्य in the 1970s as a परिणाम of the जून 17, 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C., and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal eventually led to the resignation of Richard Nixon, the President of the United States, on अगस्त 9, 1974 — the तभी इस्तीफा of a U.S. President.
The scandal also resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three व्यक्तियों, dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of five men for breaking and entering into the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a slush fund used by the कमेटी लिये the re-election of the President, the official organization of Nixon 's campaign.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the president 's staff, including testimony provided by former staff members in an investigation conducted by the Senate Watergate Committee, it थी नाज़िल कि अध्यक्ष निक्सन था a tape-recording प्रणाली in his offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings from these tapes implicated the president, revealing he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had taken प्लेस दौरान उसके administration, both before and after the break-in.
After a protracted series of bitter court battles, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously शासित कि the अध्यक्ष था to हाथ over the टेपों to government investigators ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain महाभियोग in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि and a strong possibility of a conviction in the Senate, Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974.
His successor, जेराल्ड घाट, तब issued a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly lansing और स्पेंसर ) is a fictional character on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital.
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( जॉन beradino ), one of the originating core characters of the series.
Rebecca herbst originated the अक्षर on अगस्त 1, 1997 and has been the only contract actress to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth Webber and Jason Morgan and Elizabeth Webber.
The United States presidency of रोनाल्ड reagan, भी ज्ञात as the reagan प्रशासन, was a Republican administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing government कार्यक्रम और introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in American history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, ज्ञात as `` Reaganomics ``, were an example of supply-side economics.
Reagan aimed to encourage entrepreneurship and limit the growth of social spending, as well as the reduction of विनियमन और महंगाई.
Economic विकास देखी a दमदार recovery in the 1980s, helping Reagan to win a landslide re-election.
The national कर्ज़ increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign policy, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, calling the Soviet संघ an `` दुष्ट empire `` and ending 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his predecessor, including an invasion of Grenada, the पहला प्रमुख विदेशी कार्रवाई by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War.
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to overthrow communist governments, particularly in war-torn Central अमेरिका और अफगानिस्तान.
Reagan भी प्रचारित नई technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल defense systems in order to confront the Soviets and their allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and he met with Soviet General Secretary मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव चार टाइम्स, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` reagan क्रान्ति '', or the आयु of reagan in recognition of the political realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets.
The Reagan administration worked toward the पतन of सोवियत Communism, and it did collapse just as he left office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar world with the U.S. as the world 's sole superpower.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term, Reagan himself left office with a 63 percent स्वीकृति दरजा, एक of the उच्चतर स्वीकृति दरजा of दूँ presidents.
After years of unstinting praise from the right, and unrelenting criticism from the left, historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a consensus था उभरा among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा and turned the nation to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency and American self-confidence, और contributed critically to ending the Cold War.
Crude death rate by country ( 2006 ).
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in general, or due to a विशिष्ट कारण ) in a जनसांख्यिकी.
Scaled to the size of कि जनसांख्यिकी, per unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; thus, a मृत्यु rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population, or 0.95 % out of the total.
It is distinct from morbidity रेट, जिससे refers to the number of individuals in poor health during a given time period ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths among a set of diagnosed hospital मामले लिये a बीमारी or चोट, बल्कि than लिये the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी of a country or ethnic group.
This disease mortality statistic is अधिक precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
One distinguishes:
The crude death rate, the total number of मौतों प्रति साल per 1000 people.
the crude death rate for the whole world is about 8.37 per 1000 per year according to the वर्तमान सीआईए संसार factbook.
The perinatal मृत्यु रेट, the योग of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
The maternal मृत्यु अनुपात, the क्रमांक of मातृ deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period.
The maternal mortality rate, the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive आयु in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally पारिभाषित as 15–44 years of age ).
The infant mortality rate, the number of deaths of children less than 1 year old प्रति 1000 live births.
The child mortality rate, the number of deaths of children less than 5 सालो बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 सजीव births.
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of deaths that would have महरूम अपेक्षित if the जनसांख्यिकी had been of a standard composition in terms of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This refers to the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों per year per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g. age 62 last birthday ).
In regard to the or विफलता of चिकित्सा उपचार or procedures, one would also distinguish:
The early mortality rate, the total number of deaths in the early stages of an ongoing treatment, or in the काल immediately following an treatment.
The late mortality rate, the total number of मौतों in the लेट stages of an ongoing treatment, or a significant length of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude मौत रेट as पारिभाषित ऊपर and applied to a whole population can give a misleading impression.
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific मृत्यु दरों और the आयु ( and gender ) distribution of the population.
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be उच्चतर लिये विकसित राष्ट्र than in less-developed देशों, despite जीवन expectancy being higher in developed countries due to standards of health being better.
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different population age वितरण, साथ a much उच्चतर proportion of पुरानी people, due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates.
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life table which shows the mortality rate separately लिये each age.
A life table is जरुरी to दे a शुभ अनुमान of life expectancy.
An otoacoustic emission ( OAE ) is a sound जिससे is उत्पन्न इससे भीतर the inner ear.
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948, its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have चूंकि महरूम दिखाया to उठता by a क्रमांक of अलग cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been damaged, so oaes हैं often used in the laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health.
Broadly speaking, there are two प्रकार of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ), which can occur without external stimulation, and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), which require an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 अटलांटिक hurricane season.
Tomas developed from a tropical wave east of the Windward आइलैंड्स on अक्तूबर 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia.
After reaching Category 2 औकात on the Saffir-Simpson scale, Tomas quickly weakened to a tropical storm in the central Caribbean Sea, due to strong wind shear and dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it reorganized near the windward ड्योढ़ी.
Throughout the hurricane 's path, 71 people are known to have महरूम मारे, 14 of जिसको were in Saint Lucia.
Monetary losses throughout the windward आइलैंड्स यहूद अनुमानित at US $ 588 million, mainly in Saint Lucia.
In the वेक of the तूफ़ान in हैती, flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 people were killed in Cuba and Hispanola, though the distribution of ये fatalities हैं अनजान.
Overall damage from the storm was at तनिक $ 741 लाख.
Victoria जैक्सन ( born अगस्त 2, 1959 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य, अभिनेत्री, satirist, singer and internet blogger best known as a cast member of the NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
She has received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack ओबामा, और is an active participant in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on techniques like fragmentation, paradox, and questionable narrators, and is often ( though not exclusively ) defined as a स्टाइल or ट्रेंड जिससे उभरा in the post–world युद्ध II era.
Postmodern works are seen as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध आत्मज्ञान thinking and Modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern literature, like postmodernism as a whole, tends to resist परिभाषा or वर्गीकरण as a `` movement ''.
बेशक, the अभिसरण of postmodern साहित्य with various modes of critical theory, particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches, and the subversions of the implicit contract between author, text and reader by which its works are often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, और महत्व of postmodern साहित्य, as is often the case with artistic movements, postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor.
For example, a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude with the neatly tied-up समाप्ति as is प्रायः मिला in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate मौका over शिल्प, और further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between high और कम संस्कृति through the उपयोग of pastiche, the संयोजन of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical project founded in Germany by माइकल cretu, दाउद fairstein और फ़्रैंक Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, but based उसके रिकॉर्डिंग स्टुडियो a.r.t. studios in ibiza, स्पेन, इससे the early 1990s until May 2009, where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date.
Cretu is both the composer and the निर्माता of the प्रोजेक्ट.
His former wife, pop singer सैंड्रा, प्रायः provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
Jens Gad co-arranged and played गिटार on तीन of the Enigma albums.
Peter Cornelius also contributed to पहेली during the 1990s.
Seven स्टुडियो एल्बम have महरूम produced under the name of the project.
scooby-doo is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड cartoon franchise, comprising several animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day.
the असली series, Scooby-Doo, Where Are You !
, was created for Hanna-Barbera Productions by writers Joe माणिक्य और केन स्पीयर्स in 1969.
इस शनिवार morning कार्टून series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones, Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley, and Norville `` Shaggy '' Rogers — and their talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo, who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the success of the original series, Hanna-Barbera and its successor warner ब्रदर्स. एनिमेशन have उत्पादित numerous follow-up और spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी and several related works, including television specials and telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of scooby-doo विशेषता अलग विसंगतियाँ on the दिखाएँ 's अलौकिक theme, and include characters such as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters.
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on सीबीएस इससे 1969 to 1976, when it moved to ABC.
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986, and presented a spin-off featuring the वर्ण as children, a pup नामित scooby-doo, from 1988 until 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo series, What 's नई, Scooby-Doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ], aired as भाग of Kids WB on The WB network and its successor, The CW network, from 2002 until 2008.
The सबसे recent Scooby-Doo series, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery incorporated, aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on कार्टून संजाल और boomerang in the United States and other countries.
Call of Duty is a first-person and third-person shooter computer/ वीडियो game franchise.
The series began on the pc, और बाद विस्तारित to consoles and handhelds.
Several spin-off games have भी महरूम released.
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II, this शामिल : कॉल of ड्यूटी, कॉल of ड्यूटी 2, and Call of Duty 3.
Beginning with Modern Warfare, which is set in modern times, the series has shifted focus away from World War II.
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by कॉल of ड्यूटी : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War, while Modern Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( released नवम्बर 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X.
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them, Treyarch has भी विकसित several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive, Spark Unlimited, Amaze Entertainment, n-Space, Rebellion Developments, ideaworks खेल स्टुडियो, Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games.
The games use a variety of engines, including the id तकनीक 3, the treyarch NGL, and the IW 5.0.
Other products in the मताधिकार शामिल a लकीर of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys, a card game created by Upper Deck, and a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm.
As of November 11, 2011, the Call Of Duty series have sold over 100 million नक़ल.
As of March 31, 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across all of the Call of Duty titles, with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members.
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have been logged Modern warfare 3 चूंकि इसके 2011 रिलीज.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such property is transferred via a will, according to the state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the death of the owner, such as a transfer of प्रॉपर्टी इससे an intestate एस्टेट or विश्वास, or the भुगतान of निश्चित जीवन बीमे लाभ or वित्तीय account sums to beneficiaries.
The estate tax is एक भाग of the एकीकृत Gift and Estate Tax system in the United States.
The other part of the प्रणाली, the तोहफा कर, imposes a कर on transfers of property during a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate.
In addition to the federal सरकारी, अनेक राज्य also impose an estate tax, with the state version called either an estate tax or an inheritance tax.
Opponents of the estate tax call it the `` मौत कर ''.
If an एसेट is left to a spouse or a Federally recognized charity, the tax usually does not apply.
In addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत, before and/or upon their death, without incurring federal gift or estate taxes.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English actor and musician, known as the सीसे सिंगर and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, which lasted for eight years, he was the lead singer and guitarist for संस्थान, और बाद began a solo career.
When performing solo, गेविन plays गीतों इससे उसके extensive musical libraries.
rossdale रै been ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), better known simply as राफेल, थी an इतालवी चित्रकार और वास्तु of the High Renaissance.
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of composition and for its visual उपलब्धि of the neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur.
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci, he forms the traditional trinity of great masters of कि काल.
Raphael was enormously productive, running an unusually large workshop, और despite उसके मौत at 37, a विशाल देह of उसके work remains.
अनेक of उसके works हैं मिला in the वेटिकन राजमहल, जहाँ the frescoed Raphael Rooms were the central, and the largest, work of his career.
The best known work is The School of Athens in the वेटिकन stanza देला segnatura.
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed, but लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the workshop from his drawings, with considerable loss of quality.
He was extremely influential in his lifetime, though outside Rome his work थी ज़्यादातर ज्ञात इससे उसके collaborative printmaking.
After his death, the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries, when Raphael 's अधिक निर्मल और समन्वयात्मक qualities were again regarded as the highest models.
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles, first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria, then a काल of परिचय चार सालो ( इससे 1504–1508 ) absorbing the कलाकारी परंपराओं of फ्लोरेंस, followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working for two Popes and their close associates.
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the romantic कॉमेडी pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ), जिससे grossed $ 464 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
After receiving Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार और अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman, she won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's ग्यारह ( 2001 ), समंदर 's बारह ( 2004 ), चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध ( 2007 ), वेलेंटाइन 's दिन ( 2010 ), खा दुवा Love ( 2010 ), and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion, making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts.
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the संसार, टॉपिंग The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was सशुल्क an unprecedented $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's net worth was अनुमानित to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been named one of People magazine 's `` 50 Most Beautiful People in the World '' ग्यारह टाइम्स, tied with Halle Berry.
In 2011, she was नामित एक of the `` 100 hottest Women of All-Time '' by Men 's Health.
In 2001, Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th सबसे शक्तिशाली स्त्री in the United States.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14, 1984 ) is an अमरीकी कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और अंतरजाल उद्योगों.
He is best known as one of five co-founders of the सोशल networking website Facebook.
As of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief executive of Facebook, Inc. and in 2013 उसके निजी माल थी अनुमानित to be US $ 13.3 billion.
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin moskovitz और क्रिस Hughes, Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses nationwide and moved to Palo आल्टो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook and the number of फेसबुक उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी पहुँचे a कुल of one billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in विभिन्न विधिक विवादों कि यहूद initiated by अन्य in the समूह, who claimed a share of the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest and most influential people in the संसार by समय पत्रिका as a भाग of its Person of the Year accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood film The सोशल संजाल in जिससे the rise of Facebook is portrayed.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail and अस्तित्व in a हर्ष New World environment.
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the chief tax -writing committee of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on कोई अन्य House Committees unless they apply for a waiver from their party 's congressional leadership.
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs and other revenue-raising उपायों, as well as a number of other programs including:
Social सुरक्षा
Unemployment लाभ
medicare
प्रवर्तन of चाइल्ड support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy परिवारों, a संघीय welfare program
फोस्टर परवाह and adoption programs
The u.S. संविधान requires that all bills regarding taxation must originate in the House of Representatives.
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee, the committee is very influential, as is its सीनेट बंटवारा, the u.S. सीनेट कमेटी on Finance.
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel, who had taken a leave of absence as chairman until House ethics violations were resolved.
However, his leave of absence as chairman was शासित to be a इस्तीफा.
Pete Stark resigned as एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, so Sander Levin held that position until the start of the 112th Congress.
डेव शिविर became the कमेटी chair for the 112th Congress, after the Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ).
At in length and or more in weight, it is the largest ज्ञात एनिमल to have ever existed.
Long and slender, the blue whale 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the उत्तर अटलांटिक और उत्तर प्रशांत, B. m. intermedia of the दक्षिणी समंदर और B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. इंडिका, मिला in the Indian Ocean, may be another subspecies.
As with other baleen whales, its diet consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly सब the महासागर on धरती until the beginning of the twentieth century.
For over a century, they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers जबतक सुरक्षित by the international community in 1966.
A 2002 report अनुमानित वहीँ यहूद 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide, located in at least five groups.
More recent research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest population was in the अंटार्कटिक, क्रमांकन approximately 239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in each of the eastern North Pacific, अंटार्कटिक, और भारतीय समंदर समूह.
There are two more groups in the North Atlantic, and at least two in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a किस्में of a species of thistle cultivated as a food.
the खाद्य पदार्थ is buds that form within the flower heads before the flowers come into bloom.
The buds go away or बदलें to a coarse, मुश्किल खाद्य रूप when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or wild किस्में of the species is called a cardoon.
It is a बारहमासी संयंत्र देशी to the Mediterranean region.
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी.
U.S. statesman, inventor, and diplomat Benjamin Franklin is currently प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the bill.
On the reverse of the banknote is an चित्र of स्वतंत्रता Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has महरूम मुद्रित चूंकि जुलाई 13, 1969, जब the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were retired.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear.
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` c-notes '', आधारित on the रोमन numeral for 100.
the विधेयक is एक of दो denominations मुद्रित आज कि does not feature a President of the United States ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse, according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और Printing, shows approximately 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21, 2010, and was to be issued to the public on February 11, 2011, लकिन उत्पादन थी shut bas in दिसम्बर 2010 क्युकी as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw.
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a blank space on the विधेयक जब खींचा out.
In their बदलना, और continuing the ऊँची माँग of इस denomination, the Series 2006A was launched retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
On April 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve घोषित the नई $ 100 विधेयक होता enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
King David in robes of a बीज़ान्टिन emperor.
miniature from the Paris Psalter.
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew बाइबल, थी the दूसरी किंग of the United Kingdom of Israel, and according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 bce, और उसके शासनकाल over the संयुक्त किंगडम of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
the किताबे of सैमुएल, 1 किंग्स, और 1 क्रॉनिकल्स हैं the तभी स्त्रोत of सूचना on दाउद, although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', which most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David.
He is depicted as a righteous king, although not without faults, as well as an acclaimed warrior, musician, and poet, traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the किताब of ज़बूर.
David is central to Jewish, ईसाई, और इस्लामी doctrine and culture.
Biblical tradition maintains that a direct descendant of David will be the मसीहा.
In Islam he is माना to be a prophet and the king of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the capital and largest urban agglomerate of नेपाल.
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu महानगर City at its core, and its sister cities Patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also includes the recently recognized urban areas of Shankhapur, karyabinayak, and Champapur.
Banepa, Dhulikhel, and Panauti are satellite urban areas of Kathmandu स्तिथ बस बाहर the काठमांडू valley.
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` KTM '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 निवासियों ; और the agglomerate रै a जनसांख्यिकी of अधिक than 2.5 लाख inhabitants.
The महानगर city area is and has a population density of 19,250 per km2.
The city stands at an elevation of लगभग in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of central Nepal.
It is surrounded by चार प्रमुख kyu : shivapuri, phulchoki, Nagarjun, and Chandragiri.
काठमांडू घाटी is भाग of तीन districts ( Kathmandu, Lalitpur, and Bhaktapur ), has the highest population density in the country, and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
During Rana and Shah eras, the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the काठमांडू घाटी ; it थी कया लोगों जो जिया बाहर the valley called it.
During this period, अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों called the valley itself `` Nepal Proper ''.
Today, काठमांडू is नहीं तभी the पूंजी of the संघीय Democratic Republic of Nepal, but also the headquarters of the Central Development Region of Nepal.
The Central प्रदेश comprises तीन zones : Bagmati, Narayani, and Janakpur.
Kathmandu is स्तिथ in the Bagmati Zone.
Kathmandu is the gateway to पर्यटन in नेपाल.
It is भी the तंत्रिका center of the country 's economy.
It has the most advanced infrastructure of any urban area in Nepal, and its economy is focused on tourism, which accounted लिये 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter दौरान a काल of राजनैतिक unrest, but since then has improved. )
The नगर रै a समृद्ध इतिहास, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious and cultural festivities रूप a प्रमुख भाग of the जीवनदान of लोगों residing in Kathmandu.
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and अनेक अन्य follow Buddhism.
There are people of other religious beliefs as well, giving काठमांडू a cosmopolitan culture.
Nepali is the सबसे commonly spoken language in the city.
Nepal Bhasa is the स्वदेशी भाषा spoken by the Newar people.
Hindi is widely समझा और अंग्रेज़ी is understood by Kathmandu 's educated residents.
The city 's literacy रेट is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage, tourism industry, and economy ; therefore UNESCO 's World Heritage Site lists all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading, `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site ``.
Field hockey, usually referred to simply as hockey, is a team sport of the hockey family which is played between two टीमों of ग्यारह खिलाड़ी साथ हॉकी sticks और a hard, solid plastic ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, with particular popularity throughout Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America – in addition to होने the नेशनल खेल of Pakistan and India.
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada, the United राज्य, और अन्य regions of the संसार जहाँ the खेल of ice hockey is more popular.
During play, goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball साथ कोई भाग of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ), with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick.
The team that scores the सबसे लक्ष्य by the end of the match wins.
If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a चित्रण is घोषित or the खेल goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout, depending on the competition 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ), with men and women being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games, Commonwealth games, Hockey World Cup, Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup, with many countries running extensive जूनियर, वरिष्ठ, और मास्टर्स ' क्लबों प्रतियोगिताओं.
The FIH is also responsible for organising the Hockey Rules फलक और विकासशील the नियम लिये the sport.
A लोकप्रिय रूपांतर of field hockey is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side रूपांतर, with a field which is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules remaining the same, including obstruction and feet, there are several key variations - Players may not raise the ball unless shooting on goal, players may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines हैं replaced साथ ठोस बाधाओं जिससे the बॉल होगा rebound बंद.
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the American CBS soap ओपेरा the यंग और the बेचैन.
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who originally auditioned लिये ब्रैड स्नाइडर on as the World Turns but was recommended for a role on The Young and the Restless instead.
The role was to be portrayed as an American, but Goddard 's Australian descent influenced the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि.
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced उसे दौरान the episode airing on January 12, 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family, a debut that received a mixed response.
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly rhodes ) और jill फोस्टर एबॉट ( जेस वाल्टन ) लकिन the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009, reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ).
हालांकि characterized as `` रहस्यमय '', Cane is `` loyal and dedicated '', while Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the first member of the एटकिन्सन परिवार to appear on the श्रेणी, followed by his parents and identical twin brother.
Soon after his debut, he became a अग्रणी character, a decision praised by viewers and critics.
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ), Chloe Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and most notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ), a रोमांस कि garnered significant fan attention.
In 2009, Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC would later call Lily the love of Cane 's life.
The pair था दो children, Charlie and Mattie Ashby.
In 2011, the कर्ता थी fired, and Cane was shot to death onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return, revealing that cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा bhai थी in फैक्ट the man who died.
This sacrificed his marriage to Lily, but the युगल यहूद remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012.
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he portrays the अक्षर honestly, और is `` सदा dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John क्रिस्टोफर `` जॉनी '' Depp II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an American actor, film producer, and musician.
He has won the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं Guild award for Best Actor.
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न series 21 Jump Street, becoming a teen idol.
Dissatisfied with that status, Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in films such as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ), Charlie and the चॉकलेट फैक्टरी ( 2005 ), ऐलिस in वंडरलैंड ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated with director and dost टिम बर्टन in आठ films ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, George Jung in Blow, and the bank डाकू जॉन dillinger in माइकल मन 's पब्लिक Enemies.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर और over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy for Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl.
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema, being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by लोगों पत्रिका in 2003 और 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World Records as the उच्चतम सशुल्क कर्ता, साथ $ 75 लाख.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा via the अंतरजाल.
With a web browser, one can दृश्य वेब पृष्ठों कि may contain text, images, videos, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his पहले हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire, अंग्रेजों इंजीनियर, कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born नवम्बर 11, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी football quarterback for the New York Jets of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as the fifth overall चयन by the jets और the दूसरी क्वार्टरबैक taken overall.
he निभाई कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at the University of Southern California ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined and athletic family.
In the eighth grade, he began to play फ़ुटबॉल और सीख the intricacies of the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति, training with his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to Southern California following his successful high स्कूल करियर in जिससे he led उसके टोली to a championship title during his final season.
At USC, Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first three years though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the फ़ील्ड in 2007 due to चोटों suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty.
Sanchez also became popular भीतर the जातियाँ due to his Mexican-American heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार लिये उसके प्रदर्शन on ठोकर.
Although many माना उसे too अनुभवहीन, सांचेज़ announced his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up with the Cleveland Browns, and was named the starting क्वार्टरबैक prior to the प्रारंभ of the season.
Despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game, a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts, बनने the चौथी रुकी quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship Game where they narrowly खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग Steelers, 24–19.
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior, Sanchez tied four other quarterbacks for the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories by a क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास.
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships, Sanchez joined quarterback Ben roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in एनएफएल इतिहास to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन championship in their first two seasons in the league.
The next two seasons would be a regression for both the team and Sanchez as वे विफल to पहुँचें the playoffs.
Fans and media critics called for a struggling Sanchez to be benched.
He eventually was replaced towards the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy.
Paul Avery ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) was an American police reporter, best known for his कहानियां on the infamous सीरियल कातिल known as the Zodiac, and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping.
A small submersible AC sump pump with a गार्डन नली connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove water that रै संचित in a water collecting sump basin, commonly found in the basement of homes.
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a तहखाने waterproofing system, funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural ground water, if the basement is below the water table level.
Sump pumps are used where basement बाढ़ happens regularly और to उपाय dampness where the water table is above the foundation of a home.
Sump pumps send water away from a हाउस to any place where it is no longer problematic, such as a municipal storm drain or a dry well.
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary sewer in older installations.
Once considered acceptable, this अभ्यास may अभी violate the plumbing code or municipal bylaws, because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect और reroute sump पंप निर्वहन दूर from sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed for noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump configurations and do not एहसास कि the पंप discharges to the sewer.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry sink in the तहखाने, it 's संभावित going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical system, sump पंपों may have a battery backup.
The home 's pressurized जल सप्लाई शक्तियां कुछ पंपों, eliminating the need लिये विद्युत at the व्यय of using potable water, potentially making them more expensive to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem.
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped, a backup system is important for cases when the main power is आउट लिये prolonged अवधि of time, as during a severe storm.
वहीँ हैं generally two types of sump pumps — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal pump 's motor is mounted above the sump, where it is अधिक easily सर्विस, but is also more conspicuous.
The pump impeller is driven by a long, लंबवत एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट और the impeller is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely आरोहित अंदर the sump, और is विशेषकर sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल जल तालिका -related problems in surface soil.
An artesian aquifer or periodic high water table situation can cause the ground to become अस्थिर due to water saturation.
As long as the पंप functions, the surface soil will remain stable.
These sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ; lined with corrugated metal pipe that contains perforations or नाली छेद throughout.
They may शामिल इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंट्रोल systems with visual and audible alarms and are usually covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in.
Bleeding कान्सास, खूनी कान्सास or the किनारा युद्ध, थी a श्रेणी of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border Ruffian `` elements, that took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the विरोध was the question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and southerners over the समस्या of slavery in the United States.
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York ट्रिब्यून ; the कार्यक्रम it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War.
Congress had long struggled to संतुलन the interests of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces.
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas were set into motion by the kansas–nebraska अधिनियम of 1854, जिससे nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated that the निवासियों of प्रत्येक territory or राज्य चाहिए decide whether it would be a free or slave state ; however, this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides.
At one point, Kansas had two separate governments, each with its own constitution, although only one थी federally पहचाना.
On January 29, 1861, कान्सास थी admitted to the संघ as a free state, less than three months before the Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War.
बेंजीन is an सशुल्क रासायनिक compound with the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a रिंग, साथ 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom.
Because its अणुओं contain तभी कार्बन और हाइड्रोजन अणु, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, and is one of the सबसे मौलिक petrochemicals.
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the दूसरी [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated ph –h. बेंजीन is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with a sweet smell.
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy chemicals, such as ethylbenzene and cumene, which are produced on a billion kilogram स्केल.
Because it has a high octane number, it is an important component of gasoline, composing a few प्रतिशत of इसके द्रव्यमान.
Most non-industrial applications have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an इतालवी astronomer और विज्ञान historian.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's वी खेल कंसोल to चलाएं तन्त्र कि रै नहीं been authorized by Nintendo.
It achieves this by defeating the वी 's नक़ल protection and code signing measures.
In more general terms, Wii Homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the वी 's हार्डवेयर, accessories and software for purposes outside those intended by the manufacturer.
Original efforts focused on using the वी रिमोट as a इंगित device on other operating systems, or running web-based games in the built-in web browser.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, such as the `` Twilight hack ``, `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '', `` Smash Stack '', `` Indiana Pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the Jodi '', made installing the `` homebrew चैनल `` possible.
Hadley ( right ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice.
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13, 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. Assistant to the President for नेशनल सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा Advisor ), serving under President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing पौधे and give fertilizer to half of them.
If there are differences between the fertilized plant group and the unfertilized `` control '' समूह, ये मतभेद may be due to the fertilizer.
A scientific control is an experiment or observation designed to minimize the प्रभाव of variables other than the single independent variable.
This increases the विश्वसनीयता of the results, often through a comparison between control measurements and the other measurements.
Scientific controls are a part of the वैज्ञानिक विधि.
For example, during drug testing, वैज्ञानिकों होगा कोशिश to कंट्रोल दो समूह to keep them as identical as possible, then allow one group to try the drug.
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the कंट्रोल समूह, क्युकी वे स्थापित the बेसलाइन level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against.
Without a control group, the experiment can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated पौधे grow more than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all variables in an experiment will be controlled ( accounted for by the control माप ) और none will be uncontrolled.
In such an experiment, if all the controls work as expected, it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working as intended और कि the परिणाम of the प्रयोग हैं due to the effect of the variable being tested.
That is, scientific controls allow an investigator to make a claim like `` Two परिस्थितियों यहूद एकसमान जबतक फ़ैक्टर x occurred.
Since factor X is the only difference between the two परिस्थितियों, the नई outcome was caused by factor X. ''
< < Chemical तत्व data references
John Adams ( अक्तूबर 30, 1735 ( o.s. अक्तूबर 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, and a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of American independence from Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early चरण of the अमरीकी Revolution.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a delegate from मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted थामस जेफरसन in drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और थी इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the कॉंग्रेस.
Later, as a राजनयिक in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain, and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist और इतिहासकार, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
एडम्स ' क्रांतिकारी श्रेय secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans, as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the army and navy विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared नवल war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams was defeated for re-election by थामस जेफरसन and retired to Massachusetts.
He बाद resumed his friendship with Jefferson.
He and his बीवी, अबीगैल एडम्स, संस्थापित an संपन्नता family line of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the father of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have प्राप्त वृहद मान्यता in modern times, though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
एडम्स थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the building that eventually became known as the White House.
A वाट steam engine.
The steam इंजन, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain and the world.
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to नई निर्माण प्रक्रियाओं कि occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840.
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines, new chemical manufacturing and iron उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं, improved efficiency of water power, the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools.
The transition also included the change इससे लकडी और अन्य bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades स्प्रेड to पश्चिमी यूरोपीय and the United States.
The Industrial Revolution marks a major turning point in history ; almost every पहलू of रोज़ जीवन was influenced in some way.
Most notably, average income and population began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained growth.
In the शब्द of नोबेल पुरस्कार winner Robert E. Lucas, Jr., `` For the first time in history, the living standards of the masses of ordinary people have begun to undergo sustained growth... Nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists, even as a theoretical possibility. ''
William Bell स्कॉट Iron and Coal, 1855-60
The period of time covered by the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति varies साथ अलग historians.
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully felt जबतक the 1830s or 1840s, जबकि T. S. एश्टन held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the प्रक्रम of आर्थिक and social change took place gradually and the term revolution is a misnomer.
This is स्टिल a subject of debate among historians.
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial क्रान्ति और the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
The औद्योगिक Revolution began an era of per-capita economic growth in capitalist economies.
आर्थिक इतिहासकारों हैं in अनुबंध that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants.
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870, जब technological और आर्थिक प्रगति gained आवेग साथ the increasing अपनाना of steam-powered नौकाएँ, जहाजों और रेल, the विशाल स्केल manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories.
जूलियट annmarie huddy ( born सितंबर 27, 1969 ), is an American television news reporter, currently appearing on Fox News Channel.
This list ranks U.S. cities by जमीन क्षेत्रफल ( नहीं including bodies of water ).
Total areas ( including water ) are also given, but note that, जब क्रमित by कुल क्षेत्रफल, a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San Francisco is an extreme उदाहरण ; जल makes up nearly 80 % of इसके total area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically विशाल primarily क्युकी इसके municipal government has merged with the government of the surrounding county.
In some cases the काउंटी no longer exists, जबकि in अन्य the arrangement has formed a Consolidated city–county ( or city- borough in Alaska, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These are दिखाया in बिंदास in the सूची below ( but not all examples may be indicated ).
** ये हैं स्वतंत्र cities, meaning they are not a part of any county.
The large intestine ( or bowel, colon ) is the पिछला भाग of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
Its function is to absorb water from the remaining indigestible खाना पदार्थ, और तब to pass व्यर्थ waste material from the body.
This article is primarily about the human gut, though the information about इसके प्रक्रियाओं हैं सीधे लागू to most mammals.
The large आंत consists of the cecum, rectum and anal canal.
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis, just at or below the right waist, जहाँ it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine.
From here it continues up the abdomen, then across the width of the abdominal cavity, and तब it turns bas, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
The large intestine is परिचय long, जिससे is परिचय one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal.
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine includes the cecum, कोलन, rectum, and anal canal.
However, some sources exclude the गुदा कनाल.
The Green Bay Packers are an American फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been व्यवस्थित और playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख लीग पेशेवर sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ).
Although ग्रीन खाड़ी is the पिछला एनएफएल `` छोटी कस्बा '' team, its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), including नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the Chicago Bears, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स and the Detroit Lions.
The bears-packers फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास, डेटिंग वापस to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized valley located in the Los Angeles महानगर क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it.
Home to 1.76 लाख लोगों, it lies north of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin.
Nearly two thirds of the घाटी 's जमीन क्षेत्रफल is part of the City of Los Angeles.
the अन्य incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale, Burbank, San Fernando, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
San Fernando घाटी, लॉस Angeles
The exterior of the वर्तमान संसार of coca-cola at Pemberton Place.
The World of Coca-Cola, is a permanent exhibition featuring the इतिहास of the Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment क्षेत्रों और आकर्षण, और is स्तिथ in अटलांटा, Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as भाग of Georgia 's museums.
the complex located across Baker Street from Centennial Olympic Park that is घर to the जॉर्जिया Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating इससे और replacing the original exhibit.
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel और the दूसरी किताब of the uglies त्रयी लिखा by Scott Westerfeld.
It is set in a भविष्य dystopian संसार in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by extreme cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16.
It tells the story of teenager Tally youngblood जो विद्रोहियों विरूद्ध समाज 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born सितंबर 26, 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life in prison for murdering her children.
Born in Union, South Carolina, and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union, she was convicted on July 22, 1995 for murdering her two sons, 3-year-old माइकल डेनियल स्मिथ, born अक्तूबर 10, 1991, और 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith, born August 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide ध्यान shortly बाद it विकसित, due to उसके claiming that a black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons.
She later claimed that she suffered from mental health मुद्दे कि impaired her judgment.
According to the दक्षिण कैरोलिना विभाग of Corrections, Smith will be eligible for parole on November 4, 2024, after serving a minimum of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at दक्षिण कैरोलिना 's leath correctional Institution, near Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon Athabaskan language meaning `` The Great One '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America साथ a समिट उन्नयन of ऊपर sea level.
At some, the base to peak rise is माना the largest of कोई पहाड़ situated entirely above sea level.
Measured by topographic prominence, it is the third most prominent peak after Mount एवरेस्ट और Aconcagua.
Located in the Alaska Range in the interior of US state of Alaska, it is the centerpiece of denali नेशनल पार्क और बचाना.
The first यूरोपीय to दस्तावेज़ sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794.
In 1903, James Wickersham recorded the first attempt at climbing McKinley जिससे थी unsuccessful.
In 1906, Frederick Cook claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be false.
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was achieved on June 7, 1913 by चढना हडसन Stuck, Harry Karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert Tatum.
In 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress route considered to be the safest और easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use.
The Honda S600 is an automobile manufactured by Honda.
It was launched in March 1964.
Available as a roadster – bearing strong प्रतिरूप to the होंडा s500 – और as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels.
दौरान इसके उत्पादन चलाएं up to 1966, the मॉडल स्टाइलिंग would remain pretty much the same, with the most notable changes coming to the front grille, bumper, and headlights.
Powered by a DOHC, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline engine with four carburetors, the इंजन क्षमता थी increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine produced at 8,500 आरपीएम और था a शीर्ष गति of.
With the convertible weighing in at mere, the extra sheet मेटल of the कूप तभी added to the overall weight.
Suspension was independent साथ sealed roller chain drive to each rear wheel.
The S600 was the पहला द्रव्यमान marketed Honda car.
First offered only in right-hand drive, it soon became उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets.
There were a few pre-production s500s manufactured in left hand drive, two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures.
दोनो the s600 roadster और coupé यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in मानक trim और a खास, upgraded पैकेज called the SM600 which included, among other items, special paint colors, exclusive badging, a standard radio and speaker, a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor, standard reversing lights, a standard cigarette lighter, a standard heater, better cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat.
होंडा निर्मित 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes लिये the 3 साल स्पैन.
Everybody Hates Chris is an American टेलीविज़न काल sitcom कि depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris Rock ( who is also the narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York.
The show is set between 1983 और 1987 ; however, चट्टान himself was a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up साथ a लड़के नामित Kenny Montero, whom he has often referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes.
in अनेक साक्षात्कार, चट्टान रै described Kenny as the reason he got into comedy in the first place.
The show 's शीर्षक parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` Everybody Loves Raymond but Everybody hates क्रिस ! ``.
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James Williams, Terry Crews, tichina अर्नाल्ड, tequan रिचमंड, imani हकीम, and Vincent Martella.
In Fall 2008, the The CW moved everybody hates क्रिस and The Game to the Friday night death slot.
The fourth season of the श्रेणी premiered शुक्रवार, अक्तूबर 3, 2008, at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On May 21, 2009, The CW announced that it था रद्द Everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the समाप्त of ऋतु 4 matched up with his own past—dropping out of high school to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show.
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the दो pleural परतों, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs.
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the फेफड़े दौरान वेंटिलेशन.
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old अंग्रेज़ी वीर एपिक कविता consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex.
Its composition by an anonymous anglo-saxon कवि is दिनाँक between the 8th and the early 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly क्षतिग्रस्त by a आग कि swept through a building housing a collection of Medieval manuscripts assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
The poem fell into obscurity for दशकों, और इसके अस्तित्व किया नहीं become widely ज्ञात again until it was printed in 1815 in an edition prepared by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia, comes to the help of Hroðgar, the किंग of the danes, जिनकी मीड हॉल ( in Heorot ) has been under attack by a monster known as Grendel.
बाद बियोवुल्फ़ जानबूझ उसे, Grendel 's mother attacks the hall and is then also defeated.
विजयी, बियोवुल्फ़ goes home to Geatland in Sweden and later becomes king of the Geats.
After a period of fifty years has passed, Beowulf defeats a ड्रैगन, but is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his death, his attendants bury him in a tumulus, a दफ़न mound, in Geatland.
shem हैम और japheth by James Tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; नाम '' ) थी एक of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature.
He is most popularly regarded as the ज्येष्ठ son, though some traditions regard him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem and his brother Japheth, but with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded अलग translations.
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the पिता of सब the children of eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born. ``.
However, the नई अमरीकी मानक बाइबल देता, `` Also to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 रिकॉर्ड कि shem थी स्टिल 100 सालो बूढ़ा at the जनम of arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology note, ) two years after the flood, making him barely 99 at the time the flood began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this, making his age at death 600 years.
The children of Shem were Elam, Asshur, arphaxad, lud, और aram, in जोड to daughters.
Abraham, the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs, was one of the descendants of arphaxad.
Islamic literature describes Shem as one of the believing बेटे of नूह.
Some sources even identify Shem as a नबी in उसके own right and that he was the next prophet after his father.
In one Muslim legend, Shem was one of the people that God made यीशु उठाएगा as a चिह्न to the children of इसराईल.
The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus, among many others, recounted the tradition that these five sons were the progenitors of the nations of Elam, Assyria, chaldea, लीडिया, और सीरियाई, क्रमशः.
सामीती is स्टिल a commonly प्रयुक्त पद लिये the सामीती भाषाएं, as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages, denoting the common linguistic heritage of Arabic, Aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8. ), Shem is believed to have महरूम melchizedek, किंग of सलेम जिसको अब्राहम is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe him, Shem is also credited साथ हत्या nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 AD ; japheth 's sons shown in red, Ham 's sons in blue, Shem 's sons in green.
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc. is a privately held company that is primarily an अंतरजाल डोमेन रजिस्ट्रार और वेब hosting company.
Go Daddy समूह inc. दायर लिये an IPO in 2006, but later canceled it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
In addition to domain registration and hosting Go Daddy also sells e-business related तन्त्र और सेवाएं.
On June 24, 2011, The Wall Street Journal reported that private-equity firms KKR and चांदी झील साझेदार, साथ साथ a तीसरा निवेशकों, यहूद nearing a सौदे to ख़रीदे the कम्पनी for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 go पापा पुष्टि कि केकेआर, Silver Lake Partners and Technology Crossover Ventures had closed the deal.
Although the खरीदें price was not officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25 billion, for 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren adelman, who had been with the company for about 10 years.
The Andorran coat of arms at the andorran पार्लियामेंट.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), also called the Principality of the घाटियों of अंडोरा, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय, स्तिथ in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France.
It is the sixth smallest स्वदेश in यूरोपीय, having an area of and an estimated population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, Andorra la Vella, is the highest capital city in Europe, at an elevation of ऊपर sea level.
The official language is Catalan, although स्पेनी, पुर्तगाली, and French are also commonly spoken.
Created under a charter in 988, the present principality थी formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by दो co-princes – the Bishop of Urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly क्युकी of इसके पर्यटन उद्योग, जिससे सेवाएं an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually, and also because of its status as a tax haven.
It is not a member of the यूरोपीय संघ, लकिन the यूरोपियन is the de facto currency.
The people of अंडोरा have the 4th highest human life expectancy in the world — 82 years at birth.
The जार्ज वॉशिंगटन University ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards प्रमाणपत्र, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स degrees, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21, 1980 ) is an American socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व and occasional actress.
In 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding her $ 5 million ; later in that same साल, वो और उसके परिवार rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the kardashians, और इसके subsequent spin-offs, सहित कोर्टनी और किम Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
In 2010, Kardashian was the highest-earning reality star, with अनुमानित आय of $ 6 लाख.
With sisters Kourtney and khloé, कार्दशियन co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H.
She has महरूम शामिल in the production of several lines of clothing and fragrances.
In अगस्त 2011, कार्दशियन शादीशुदा बास्केट player Kris Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That October, Kardashian filed for divorce following 72 days of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash इससे the मीडिया, जो labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 days, कार्दशियन और humphries reached an undisclosed settlement at the Los Angeles Superior Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and highways, 3D computer-generated चित्र
fly-around tour of the island
Oahu ( ) or oahu, ज्ञात as `` the महफ़िल प्लेस '', is the third largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
The state capital, होनोलूलू, is on oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in kaneohe खाड़ी और बंद the पूर्वी ( windward ) coast, it रै a कुल जमीन क्षेत्रफल of, making it the 20th largest island in the United States.
In the greatest dimension, this volcanic island is long and across.
the लंबाई of the shoreline is.
The island is the result of two पृथक शील्ड ज्वालामुखी : waianae और koolau, with a broad `` valley '' or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them.
The highest point is Mt. Ka'ala in the Waianae Range, उठती to ऊपर समुद्र स्तर.
the आधार करेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य is the U.S. dollar, and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At one समय, however, u.S. करेंसी included five larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were printed for general use, and a $ 100,000 नोट थी मुद्रित लिये निश्चित आतंरिक transactions.
अंग्रेजों होंडुरास थी a British colony in Central America.
In 1981, the colony gained full independence, और is अभी the स्वतंत्र nation of Belize.
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th सदी, the territory on the east coast of Central America, south of Mexico, became a British crown colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing colony.
बेलीज़ became fully स्वतंत्र from the United Kingdom in 1981.
Belize was the पिछला महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा of the United Kingdom in the Americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel wheat, or hulled wheat, is an ancient species of wheat from the पांचवां मिलेनियम BC.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe इससे the कांस्य आयु to मध्यकालीन टाइम्स ; it अभी survives as a relict crop in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market as a health food.
Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely related species common wheat ( T. aestivum ), in which case इसके वनस्पति नाम is माना to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid गेहूं, which means it has six sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional जासूस निर्मित by लेखक और चिकित्सक Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic, Holmes is famous for his astute logical reasoning, his ability to adopt लगभग कोई भेस, और उसके उपयोग of forensic विज्ञान कौशल to solve मुश्किल मामले.
Holmes, who first appeared in publication in 1887, थी प्रदर्शित in चार novels and 56 short stories.
the पहला अनोखा, a पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट, appeared in beeton 's क्रिसमस Annual in 1887 and the second, The Sign of the Four, in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand Magazine, beginning with A Scandal in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of short stories and two novels प्रकाशित in सीरियल form appeared between then and 1927.
the कहानियां cover a period from around 1880 up to 1914.
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer, dr. जॉन H. वाटसन ; दो हैं narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's Mane `` ) and two others are written in the third person ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` and `` His Last Bow `` ).
In two stories ( `` The musgrave अनुष्ठान `` और `` the ग्लोरिया स्कॉट `` ), holmes tells Watson the main story from his memories, while Watson becomes the narrator of the frame story.
The first and fourth novels, A Study in Scarlet and The Valley of Fear, each include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson.
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is frequently referred to as the House.
The other हाउस is the Senate.
The composition and powers of the House are established in Article One of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House और सीनेट re-pass the विधान with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, और to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि.
The most populous राज्य, California, currently has 53 representatives.
The total number of मतदान प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by law at 435.
प्रत्येक प्रतिनिधि serves for a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
the हाउस meets in the south wing of the United States Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts, सहित फल gels, puddings and no-bake cream pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it being used as a generic term for जिलेटिन मिठाई आरपार the u.S. and Canada.
Kennywood is an मनोरंजन पार्क स्तिथ in वेस्ट mifflin, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh.
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` ट्राली पार्क '' आकर्षण at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The पार्क थी खरीदा in 1906 by F. W. henninger and Andrew McSwigan and thus began the Kennywood Entertainment company that has remained a closely held family business for over 100 years.
This traditional amusement park still has structures और rides dating back to its opening and the early 1900s.
Along with Rye Playland Park, it is one of only two amusement पार्क सूचीबद्ध in the National Register of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment कम्पनी, जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely held family business owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood entertainment is अभी संचालित by California-based Palace Entertainment, a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos, an international amusement park company based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in फेरे a subsidiary of candover निवेश, an investment fund based in the UK.
A Social Security card issued by the रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट फलक in 1943 to a now deceased person.
In the United States, a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens, स्थाई निवासियों, और अस्थाई ( working ) निवासियों under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act, codified as.
The number is जारी to an व्यक्तिगत by the सोशल Security Administration, an independent agency of the United States government.
Its प्राथमिक purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form ss-5, `` अनुप्रयोग लिये a सोशल Security Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design, especially visual art and music, where the work is set out to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through eliminating all non-essential forms, features or concepts.
Minimalism is any design or style in which the सरलतम और fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect.
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–World युद्ध ii पश्चिमी आर्ट, सबसे strongly with American visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd, John McCracken, Agnes Martin, Dan Flavin, Robert Morris, Anne truitt, और फ़्रैंक Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism, and is often interpreted as a reaction against अमूर्त अभिव्यंजनावाद और a सेतु to postminimal आर्ट practices.
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition और iteration, as in the compositions of La Monte Young, Terry Riley, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
अल्पतम रचनाएं are sometimes known as systems music.
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything कि is अतिरिक्त or stripped to its essentials.
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett, the films of Robert Bresson, the कहानियां of रेमंड Carver, and even the automobile designs of Colin Chapman.
the शब्द थी पहला used in English in the early 20th century to describe the Mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of आंशिक pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल दबाव exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
This empirical law was observed by John Dalton in 1801 and is सम्बन्धित to the आदर्श गैस कानून.
Mathematically, the दबाव of a मिश्रण of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the आंशिक pressure of each component.
It is assumed कि the gases do not react with each other
where is the mole भिन्न of the i-th घटक in the total mixture of n components.
The relationship below provides a way to determine the आवाज़ आधारित विशेषज्ञता of कोई individual gaseous component
where is the विशेषज्ञता of the i-th component expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's law is not exactly followed by रियल गैसों.
Those deviations are considerably large at high pressures.
In such conditions, the आवाज़ occupied by the अणुओं can become significant compared to the free space between them.
In particular, the short average distances between molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular forces between gas molecules enough to substantially बदलें the दबाव exerted by उन्हें.
Neither of those effects are माना by the ideal gas model.
This is a list of the largest United States colleges and universities by नामांकन लिये कॉलेजों और universities in the United States.
What इस सूची includes:
Colleges and universities within the संयुक्त States
University systems if the प्रणाली is चलाएं अंतर्गत a सिंगल administration
Enrollment is the योग of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate students
नामांकन is गिने by the एकीकृत post-secondary Education System within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the number of unique students जो attended the विश्वविद्यालयों दौरान the year.
What this सूची करता नहीं include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled students are full or part time ( e.g., some विश्वविद्यालयों may have a ऊँची नामांकन, लकिन have most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that measure university नामांकन, देखिए the देखिए भी खण्ड below.
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo Rida, released as the lead single from his second studio एल्बम, r.o.o.t.s. ( 2009 ).
The song features अतिथि vocals इससे Kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was डिजिटली released on 10 फ़रवरी by पो लड़के entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's जाल बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm, जबकि adapting the कोरस of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the सोंग 's लेखक, the chorus refers to oral sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the संयुक्त राज्य, दौरान the चलाएं atop the chart, Kesha was uncredited.
The song received mostly negative reviews from critics, जो claimed it थी kitsch and misogynistic.
However, it was a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, reaching the top ten of the charts in nineteen countries worldwide.
In the United States, it became Flo Rida 's second number-one सिंगल और broke the रिकार्ड for first-week sales when it was released to digital retailers.
the सिंगल 's accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो थी निर्देशित by Malcolm Jones and nominated for an MTV Video Music Award.
The song has been used in several फिल्मों, ऐसे as the hangover, The Ugly Truth and the Telugu movie Pilla Zamindar.
In the movie पिच पूर्ण, the सोंग is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers.
The Chief Justice of the United States is the head of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अदालत प्रणाली ( the न्यायिक शाखा of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate Justices of the परम् अदालत of the United States.
From 1789 until 1866, the दफ्तर was known as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country, and acts as a chief administrative अधिकारी लिये the संघीय न्यायालयों और as सिर of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
The Chief Justice also serves as a प्रवक्ता लिये the judicial branch.
The Chief इंसाफ लीड the कारोबार of the Supreme Court.
He presides over oral arguments before the court.
When the court renders an opinion, the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the अदालत 's राय.
The Chief Justice also has significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings.
In the case of an impeachment of a President of the United States, जिससे रै occurred twice, the मुख्य इंसाफ presides over the trial in the Senate.
In modern परंपरा, the मुख्य इंसाफ रै the ceremonial duty of administering the oath of office of the President of the United States.
The first Chief इंसाफ थी जॉन Jay.
The 17th और वर्तमान मुख्य Justice is John G. Roberts, Jr.
Caribou near prudhoe खाड़ी, 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on Alaska 's North Slope.
It is the largest आयल फ़ील्ड in दोनो the संयुक्त States and in North America, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The amount of recoverable आयल in the फ़ील्ड is अधिक than double that of the next largest field in the United States, the East Texas oil field.
The field is operated by BP ; partners are ExxonMobil और conocophillips Alaska.
Labor unions हैं legally recognized as representatives of workers in many industries in the United States.
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working conditions for their membership, and on representing उनके सदस्यों in विवादों साथ management over violations of contract provisions.
Larger संघ भी typically engage in lobbying activities and electioneering at the state and federal level.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger छतरियाँ संगठन : the afl-cio created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005.
Both advocate policies and legislation on behalf of workers in the United States और कनाडा, और लो an क्रियाशील भूमिका in राजनीती.
The afl-cio is विशेषकर concerned with global trade issues.
In 2010, the प्रतिशत of मजदूर belonging to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in Finland.
Union सदस्यता in the निजी सेक्टर has fallen under 7 % — levels not seen since 1932.
Unions allege कि employer-incited विपक्ष has contributed to this decline in membership.
The most prominent unions are among public sector कर्मचारी ऐसे as शिक्षक and police.
Members of unions are disproportionately older, पुरूष और निवासियों of the Northeast, the Midwest, and California.
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in अमेरिका बाद controlling for individual, job, and labor market characteristics.
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s, American unions remain a prominent political factor, both through mobilization of their own memberships and through coalitions साथ like-minded activist संगठन around मुद्दे ऐसे as अप्रवासी अधिकारों, व्यापार policy, health care, and living wage campaigns.
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs, unions are currently advocating नई `` कार्ड जाँच `` संघीय विधान कि होता require employers to bargain with a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 दिनों लिये a federally पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot कर्मचारी referendum on the subject.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that, `` दमदार संघ have helped to reduce असमानता, whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the United States has been associated with a सुनाया rise in income and wealth inequality.
A ईसाई Lacroix fashion boutique
A बुटीक is a small shopping outlet, especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry.
The word is French for `` shop '', via लैटिन इससे यूनानी ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into रोज अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग in the लेट 1960s when, for a brief period, London was the centre of the fashion trade.
carnaby गली और the किंग्स Road were the focus of much media attention as home to the most fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more boutiques pop up in fashionable areas, such as Tower Bridge Road.
It can also refer to a specialised कड़ ऐसे as a boutique investment bank or boutique law firm.
The word is often used to describe a property in the independent section of the hotel market ( such as The Rockwell in लंदन ) in अनुक्रम to फर्क themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In such cases the establishments aim to convey the idea कि the आपरेशन is elite and highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but more generally speaking, some chains can be referred to as boutiques if वे specialize in particular styles.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in intentionally छोटी संख्याएँ at very high prices.
This may be referred to as boutique manufacturing.
For example, before the release of the Wii, a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` बुटीक video-game कम्पनी '', producing खेल लिये niche audiences, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- watch industry scalfaro अंतरराष्ट्रीय is considered as the precursor in manufacturing and sale of bespoke watches.
The Swiss कम्पनी उपयोग a अत्यधिक flexible boutique manufacturing site, which allows producing small series or even unique timepieces.
हालांकि कुछ boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items, others simply produce t-shirts, stickers, and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices.
In the early 1990s Selena started manufacturing her own line of women 's clothing.
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc. Boutique & Salon '' One located in कॉर्पस christi और एक स्तिथ in San Antonio, Texas.
One was due to खोलें in monterrey, मैक्सिको, in 1995 but due to her death it was not opened.
Around 1999 the San Antonio location closed and the कॉर्पस christi स्थान was closed in 2009.
In लेट 1990s कुछ यूरोपीय खुदरा व्यापारियों विकसित the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle theme, in the form of `` concept stores '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in Milan, इटली followed by colette in पेरिस and Quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters, D-A-S-H, और the गैप, Australian chain Billabong and, though less common, Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit union headquartered in Vienna, Virginia, chartered और regulated अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the नेशनल Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest natural member ( or खुदरा ) क्रेडिट संघ in the world, both in asset size and in membership.
As of सितंबर 2012, Navy Federal had over $ 50 billion USD in assets, and over 4 million members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland hardaway judkins ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम स्टीवी अचरज, is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century.
Blind since shortly after birth, Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the आयु of ग्यारह, और continues to perform and record for Motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's बेहतरीन ज्ञात works हैं singles such as `` Superstition ``, `` Sir Duke ``, `` You Are the Sunshine of My Life `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also include Talking Book, innervisions और गीतों in the Key of Life.
He has recorded more than तीस u.S. शीर्ष टेन hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for political causes, सहित उसके 1980 अभियान to make Martin Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States.
In 2009, Wonder was नामित a संयुक्त Nations Messenger of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the US singles चार्ट 's पचासवें वर्षगांठ, साथ अचरज at number five.
By popular vote, स्टीवी थी inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of Fame at SoulMusic.com in December 2012.
मनस्ताप ( इससे the यूनानी ψυχή `` psyche '', लिये mind/soul, और -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '', लिये असामान्य कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality ``.
People suffering from psychosis are described as psychotic.
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder, during जिससे मति और delusions, सकल excitement or stupor and impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia और द्विध्रुवी प्रकार 1 विकार.
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases, from both external substances and आतंरिक physiologic बीमारी, can उपज लक्षण of मनस्ताप.
This led many पेशेवर to say that psychosis is not specific enough as a diagnostic term.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative signs ) and more commonly to diverse प्रकार of मति or delusional मान्यताओं ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas one exhibiting बहुत हल्का लक्षण could be वर्गीकृत in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis, विशेषकर those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a यांत्रिकी of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine प्रणाली ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये दवाएँ, however, show either no significant difference between drug and placebo, or a very small effect size, suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing मनस्ताप may exhibit some personality changes and thought disorder.
Depending on its severity, this may be accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior, as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying आउट रोज़ जीवन क्रियाएँ.
General Grievous is a fictional character in the स्टार युद्धों universe.
A recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a political faction of ग्रहीय प्रणालियों waging war on the Galactic Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count Dooku, he is a निष्ठुर और शक्तिशाली योद्धा devoted to जेडी 's विनाश during the Clone Wars.
उसके अधिनियमों of wanton आक्रामकता और ऊँची जेडी body count would prompt the galaxy to give him the nickname the Knightslayer.
हालांकि the बदनाम जेडी slayer थी the होने in the galaxy during the Clone Wars who had killed the most Jedi in single combat, he did not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose.
Statistics play an important role in summarizing baseball performance और evaluating खिलाड़ी in the sport.
Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it, and normally players act individually बल्कि than performing in क्लस्टर, the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball since the सृष्टि of the नेशनल लीग और अमरीकी League, now part of Major League Baseball.
Many statistics are also उपलब्धियाँ इससे बाहर of Major League Baseball, from leagues such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues.
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in California, centering on Florence Owens Thompson, age 32, a mother of seven children, in nipomo, California, March 1936.
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60, with the सालो of the ग्रेट Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression was a severe विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक अवसाद in the decade preceding World War II.
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations, but in most देशों it प्रारंभ in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s.
It was the longest, सबसे फैली, and deepest depression of the 20th century.
In the 21st century, the Great Depression is commonly used as an उदाहरण of कैसा far the world 's economy can decline.
The depression originated in the U.S., after the fall in stock prices कि began around सितंबर 4, 1929, और became विश्वव्यापी news with the stock market crash of October 29, 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ).
The Great Depression had devastating effects in देशों समृद्ध और ग़रीब.
Personal आय, tax revenue, profits and prices dropped, while international trade plunged by more than 50 %.
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 %, और in कुछ देशों rose as high as 33 %.
Cities all around the world यहूद hit मुश्किल, विशेषकर those dependent on heavy industry.
Construction was वस्तुतः halted in many countries.
खेती और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों suffered as crop prices fell by approximately 60 %.
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate स्त्रोत of कार्य, क्षेत्रों निर्भर on प्राथमिक sector industries such as cash cropping, mining and logging suffered the most.
कुछ economies started to recover by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the negative प्रभाव of the ग्रेट अवसाद lasted until the end of World War II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ), also known as a premature ventricular complex, ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ), ventricular premature beat ( VPB ), or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ), is a अपेक्षाकृत आम इवेंट जहाँ the धड़कन is initiated by purkinje मछली in the ventricles बल्कि than by the sinoatrial नोड, the normal heartbeat initiator.
The electrical events of the दिल detected by the electrocardiogram allow a PVC to be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` छोड़ा ताल `` or felt as palpitations in the chest.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to fill them by contracting ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can पंप a maximized राशि of रक्त दोनो to the lungs and to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with रक्त, जिससे अर्थात् कि परिसंचरण is अकुशल.
However, single beat PVC arrhythmias do नहीं प्रायः पोज़ a खतरे और can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William Gary Busey ( born June 29, 1944 ), better known as गेरी busey, is an अमरीकी फिल्मी and stage actor, and artist.
He has appeared in a variety of films, including Lethal Weapon, Point Break, and Under Siege, as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, Walker, Texas रेंजर, विधि & अनुक्रम, and Entourage.
he थी मनोनीत for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ), is a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों लिये बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों प्रवर्तन.
The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods, जेनेरिक दवाइयाँ और कापीराइट infringement on the Internet, and would create a new governing body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World Intellectual Property Organization, or the United Nations.
The agreement was signed in अक्तूबर 2011 by ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा, जापानी, मोरक्को, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States.
In 2012, Mexico, the European Union and 22 countries which are member राज्य of the यूरोपीय Union signed as well.
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement, which होता आइये into फ़ोर्स in देशों कि ratified it after ratification by six countries.
Supporters have described the agreement as a response to `` the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated कापीराइट सुरक्षित works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association of अमेरिका और फार्मास्युटिकल शोध और निर्माताओं of अमेरिका यहूद क्रियाशील in the treaty 's development.
Opponents say the सम्मेलन adversely affects आधारभूत अधिकारों including freedom of expression and privacy.
ACTA has भी महरूम criticised by डॉक्टर Without Borders for endangering access to medicines in developing countries.
the रहस्य प्रकृति of negotiations रै excluded सिविल समाज समूह, विकासशील देशों और the general public from the agreement 's negotiation process and it has been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the इस्तीफा in विरोध of the European Parliament 's appointed chief investigator, rapporteur Kader Arif, as well as widespread protests across Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, British MEP David Martin, recommended against the treaty, stating : `` the intended लाभ of इस अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary session, with 478 voting against the सन्धि, 39 in पक्ष और 165 meps abstaining.
FAW semi-trailer ट्रक in China
Tractor with side डम्प ट्रेलर semi-trailer
A tractor साथ an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer truck with स्लीपर पीछे the cab.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle that consists of a towing engine, known as a tractor in the United States and ट्रक in अनेक अन्य स्थान, संलग्न to एक or more semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck and trailer, transfer truck, 18-wheeler, mack truck, big rig in the United States, or artic, छोटी for articulated lorry, in Britain and Ireland.
A semi-trailer करता नहीं ट्रेल completely पीछे the towing vehicle, but is attached at a point that is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
This is done so that a भिन्न of the वज़न of the trailer is carried by the prime mover.
This arrangement means that both tractor and semi-trailer होगा have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer.
The Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स हैं a पेशेवर football team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American Football Conference ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
संस्थापित in, the स्टीलर्स are the oldest franchise in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( six ), won more AFC Championship खेल ( आठ ) और निभाई in ( पंद्रह ) और hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह ) सम्मेलन championship games than any other AFC or NFC team.
The Steelers share the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे सुपर कटोरी दिखावे साथ the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ).
the स्टीलर्स won their most recent championship, Super Bowl XLIII, on February 1, 2009.
The Steelers were founded as the पिट्सबर्ग pirates on जुलाई 8, 1933, by आर्ट रूनी, लेने इसके असली नाम इससे the baseball team of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The स्वामित्व of the स्टीलर्स रै remained within the Rooney family since its founding.
The current मालिक is आर्ट 's बेटे, डान Rooney, who has given much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams, the Steelers enjoy a विशाल, फैली fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation.
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh 's North Side in the उत्तर shore पड़ोस, जिससे also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced Three Rivers Stadium which hosted the स्टीलर्स लिये 31 सीज़न.
Prior to Three नदियाँ, the स्टीलर्स had played their games in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three अलग kinds of wheat and rye flour
Flour is a powder which is made by पीस खाद्यान्न दाने, or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ).
It is the main ingredient of bread, which is a staple food for many cultures, making the availability of पर्याप्त आपूर्तियाँ of आटा a प्रमुख आर्थिक और political issue at various times throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the most महत्वपूर्ण भोजन in यूरोपीय, North American, Middle Eastern, Indian and North African cultures, and is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries.
While wheat is the most common base for flour, corn flour has been important in mesoamerican भोजन चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, और remains a staple throughout the Americas.
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe, and rice can also be used in flour, though इस is अपेक्षाकृत uncommon.
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats प्रति ईकाई of समय, typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes, such as during physical कसरत, नींद, बीमारी, or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system stimulants such as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the heart rate ( apart from some particularly strange ones with equally strange effects, such as ketamine which can cause - amongst अनेक अन्य बाते - stimulant-like प्रभाव ऐसे as tachycardia ).
There are अनेक तरीके in जिससे the heart rate speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins और हार्मोन होने released in the brain, many of which are those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a constant रक्त आवाज़, एक of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार अधिक oxygen to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
Normal resting heart rates दायरा इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is defined as a resting दिल रेट नीचे 60 bpm.
However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm are common among healthy लोगों और do नहीं necessarily आवश्यकता खास ध्यान.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm, though persistent बाकी दरों between 80-100 bpm, मुख्यतः if they are present during sleep, may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded राजतिलक कोच ( hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle लिये लोगों, प्रायः horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded, since they are wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is especially designed for private passenger use and for comfort or elegance, though some हैं भी प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण goods.
It may be लाइट, smart और तेज़ or भारी, large and comfortable.
Carriages normally have suspension using leaf springs, अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping.
A public passenger vehicle would not usually be called a carriage – शर्तें लिये ऐसे शामिल stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the history of the carriage, as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust भूकंप कि occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday, 26 December 2004, with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is ज्ञात by the वैज्ञानिक community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.
The resulting सुनामी थी दिए विभिन्न names, सहित the 2004 भारतीय Ocean tsunami, South Asian tsunami, Indonesian tsunami, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the भारतीय समंदर, हत्या over 230,000 लोगों in चौदह देशों, और inundating तटीय समुदायों साथ लहरें up to high.
It was one of the deadliest प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in recorded history.
Indonesia was the hardest-hit country, followed by Sri Lanka, इण्डिया, और Thailand.
With a परिमाण of mw 9.1–9.3, it is the third largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph.
The earthquake had the longest duration of faulting कभी observed, between 8.3 and 10 minutes.
It caused the entire planet to vibrate as much as और triggered अन्य भूकंप as far away as Alaska.
Its epicentre was between simeulue और मेनलैंड Indonesia.
The plight of the प्रभावित लोगों और countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian response.
In all, the worldwide community दान अधिक than $ 14 अरब ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam rising इससे the nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली गठन of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the रूप of ऊष्मा from the core to the surface.
The क्रियाशील geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), meaning earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the धरती, थर्मल उर्जा is निर्मित by radioactive decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts इससे the core to surrounding cooler rock.
The high temperature and दबाव कारण कुछ चट्टान to melt, बनाना मैग्मा convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock and जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for स्पेस हीटिंग since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 देशों.
An अतिरिक्त 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, but has historically been सीमित to क्षेत्रों निकट tectonic थाली सीमाएँ.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources, especially for applications such as home हीटिंग, खोलने a संभावित लिये फैली exploitation.
geothermal कुएं रिलीज ग्रीनहाउस gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global वार्मिंग if widely तैनात in प्लेस of चट्टान fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's उर्जा needs, लकिन तभी a बहुत छोटी भिन्न may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and exploration for deep resources is बहुत महंगी.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
Pilot कार्यक्रम जैसे eweb 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
लकिन as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted research and industry experience, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal उर्जा cost between two and ten cents per kwh.
The पद घन पैर is an इम्पीरियल और us customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume, used in the United States and the United Kingdom.
It is defined as the volume of a cube with sides of one foot ( 0.3048 m ) in लंबाई.
to गणना घन फीट गुणा लंबाई x चौडाई x ऊँचाई.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 सितंबर 1969 ), born nguyễn sinh cung और भी ज्ञात as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc, was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
he थी a कुंजी फिगर in the न्यास of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of Vietnam in 1945, as well as the People’s Army of Vietnam ( PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941 onward, establishing the कम्युनिस्ट -नियमd लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945 और defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down from power in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य problems, but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united, communist Vietnam—until his death.
After the war, Saigon, पूंजी of the Republic of Vietnam, was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
All Roads Lead Home is a feature film released on सितंबर 26, 2008.
Directed by Dennis Fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason London, Vivien Cardone, Vanessa Branch, Peter कायोटी, स्टीफन मिल्टन, और Allan Kayser.
The movie was filmed in और around Kansas City, Missouri.
The movie made its World Premiere January 27 at the Santa Barbara अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी Festival.
The film रै भी recently महरूम in अनेक film festivals, and has received bad reviews.
Peter Boyle died पहले the movie 's release.
It was the last फिल्म he appeared in.
Sales taxes in the United States हैं कर लगाई on the बिक्री or lease of goods and services in the United States.
While no नेशनल सामान्य बिक्री कर exists, the federal government levies several national selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods and services.
Furthermore, forty-five states, the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और गुआम थोपने सामान्य बिक्री कर that apply to the sale or lease of most goods and some services, and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services.
राज्य may भी delegate to local governments the authority to impose additional general or selective sales taxes.
Sales tax is गणना by multiplying the purchase price by the applicable tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार और दायरा from less than 1 % to over 10 %.
बिक्री कर is एकत्रित by the seller at the time of sale.
Use tax is स्वः assessed by a खरीदार जो रै not paid sales tax on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the value added कर, a बिक्री कर is imposed only once, at the retail level.
However, in cases where items हैं बेची at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार, such as used cars, the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely.
The परिभाषा of खुदरा sales and what goods and services are taxable vary among the states.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods और सेवाएं कि हैं exempt इससे बिक्री कर, or taxed at reduced rates.
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt खाना बेची in किराना स्टोर्स, नुस्खा medications, and many agricultural supplies.
बिक्री कर, including those imposed by local governments, are generally administered at the state level.
States imposing sales tax आवश्यकता खुदरा विक्रेता to collect tax from customers, file returns, and remit the tax to the state.
Procedural नियम vary widely.
Sellers generally must collect कर इससे in-state purchasers जबतक the purchaser provides an exemption certificate.
Most states allow or आवश्यकता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance.
A central processing unit ( CPU ), also referred to as a central processor unit, is the hardware within a computer that carries out the निर्देश of a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम by performing the मौलिक अंकगणितीय, लॉजिकल, and input/output operations of the system.
The term has been in use in the कंप्यूटर उद्योग at least since the early 1960s.
the रूप, डिज़ाइन, और क्रियान्वयन of CPUs have changed over the course of their history, but their fundamental operation remains much the same.
A computer can have अधिक than एक CPU ; this is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain अनेक cpu on a सिंगल chip ; those ICs are called multi-core processors.
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic and logical operations, and the control unit ( CU ), which extracts निर्देश इससे मेमोरी और decodes और चलाता them, calling on the ALU when necessary.
Not all computational systems rely on a central प्रसंस्करण unit.
An array processor or vector processor रै अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग elements, with no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the distributed computing model, problems are solved by a वितरित interconnected नियत of processors.
RFID chip next to a अनाज of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to ट्रांसफ़र a coded पहचान number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in pets, for पहचान उद्देश्य.
Radio-frequency identification ( rfid ) is the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक fields to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically भंडारित सूचना.
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e., इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the reader, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID tags are used in many उद्योग.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track its progress through the assembly line.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and पालतु may have tags injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of reading personally-linked information बगैर सहमति रै उठाया गोपनीयता चिंताएं.
Overtime is the राशि of समय किसी works beyond normal working hours.
Normal hours may be determined in अनेक रास्ताs:
by custom ( what is considered स्वस्थ or उचित by society ),
by practices of a given trade or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between नियोक्ता and workers or their representatives.
Most nations have overtime labor laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers इससे forcing उनके कर्मचारी to कार्य excessively long hours.
These laws may लो into खाता अन्य considerations than the humanitarian, such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common approach to regulating overtime is to आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to अदा workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work.
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay भी if नहीं obliged to do so by विधि, विशेषकर if they believe that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour.
ओवरटाइम अदा दरों can कारण workers to work longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate.
Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country और between अलग आर्थिक sectors.
Visualization of links between पृष्ठों on a विक using a force-directed layout.
Force-directed graph आरेखण algorithms हैं a क्लास of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to स्थिति the नोड of a आलेख in two-dimensional or three-dimensional स्पेस so कि सब the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as possible, by assigning forces among the set of edges and the set of nodes, based on their relative positions, and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy.
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, होने शारीरिक simulations, प्रायः आवश्यकता no खास knowledge about graph theory such as planarity.
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for inflation ) is the amount of goods or सेवाएं कि can be खरीदा साथ a unit of currency.
For example, if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s, you would have been able to buy a greater number of items than you would today, indicating that you would have था a वृहद खरीदना शक्ति in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a commodity धन, जैसे सुनहरा or चांदी, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars.
As Adam Smith noted, having money gives one the ability to `` command '' others ' labor, so खरीदना शक्ति to कुछ extent is शक्ति over other people, to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency.
If one 's monetary income stays the वही, लकिन the price level increases, the purchasing power of that income falls.
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money income चूंकि it may वृद्धि तेज़ than the दाम स्तर.
A higher real income means a higher purchasing शक्ति चूंकि रियल आय refers to the income adjusted for inflation.
For a price index, its value in the आधार साल is प्रायः normalized to a value of 100.
The purchasing power of a ईकाई of करेंसी, कह a डालर, in a given year, expressed in dollars of the base year, is 100/P, where P is the price index in that year.
so, by परिभाषा the purchasing power of a dollar decreases as the price level rises.
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money, t सालो into the भविष्य, can be computed with the formula for the present value :
जहाँ in इस case i is an assumed future annual inflation rate.
Education in South Korea is viewed as being निर्णायक लिये कामयाबी and competition is consequently very heated and fierce.
A central administration oversees the process for the शिक्षा of children इससे किंडरगार्टन to the third and final year of high school.
गणित, विज्ञान, कोरियाई, अंग्रेज़ी, and social studies are generally considered to be the most important subjects.
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised, by the generally अकादमिक elitist South Korean populace, as education and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
South Korea was the first country in the world to provide high-speed अंतरजाल अभिगम to all primary, junior, and high schools.
Although South Korean students often rank highly on international comparative assessments when compared to students of most पश्चिमी शिक्षा प्रणालियों, the दक्षिण कोरियाई शिक्षा प्रणाली is criticised लिये emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South Korean education system is rather notably strict and overly संरचित as compared to इसके counterparts in most Western societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as अकादमियों or cram-schools ( hagwon [ 학원 ] ), जिससे too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students are criticised as a major social problem.
The My Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे नागरिकों in दक्षिण वियतनाम on कूच 16, 1968, by संयुक्त राज्य Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
Victims included women, मेन, children, and infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped और उनके लाशें यहूद later found to be mutilated and many women were allegedly raped prior to the killings.
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses for उनके क्रियाएँ at mỹ lai, तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट विलियम Calley, a platoon leader in Charlie Company, was convicted.
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers, he was originally given a life वाक्य, लकिन तभी परोसा तीन और a हाफ सालो under house arrest.
The massacre took प्लेस in the hamlets of My Lai and My Khe of Son My village.
The event is also known as the Son My Massacre, especially in the वियतनामी राज्य मीडिया.
The U.S. सैन्य codeword लिये the `` viet Cong stronghold '' was `` Pinkville ''.
The घटना prompted वैश्विक outrage when it became public knowledge in 1969.
The massacre also increased घरेलू विपक्ष to the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre and protect the wounded यहूद initially denounced by several U.S. Congressmen as traitors.
They received hate mail and death threats and मिला mutilated पशु on their doorsteps.
The three were later widely praised and सजा by the फौज for their heroic actions.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda, and 15 of the 19 were citizens of सऊदी Arabia.
Others were from मिश्र, लेबनान, and the UAE.
The hijackers were organized into four teams, each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' जो यहूद प्रशिक्षित to सहायता subdue the पायलटों, यात्री, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid al-mihdhar और nawaf al-hazmi, जो settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots, मोहम्मद atta, Marwan al-Shehhi, and Ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, hani hanjour, arrived in San Diego in December 2000.
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early summer of 2001, बस महीने पहले the सितंबर 11 हमले.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी भेजा by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider उसे to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his ताऊ abu तालिब.
he बाद worked ज़्यादातर as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he बाद reported कि it थी वहीँ, at आयु 40, कि he प्राप्त उसके पहला रहस्योद्घाटन इससे God.
Three years बाद इस इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself was a नबी और मेसेंजर of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी पंचांग, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In मदीना, मुहम्मद संयुक्त the tribes under the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his followers, who by then had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the नगर और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few months after returning to Medina from The Farewell यात्राएं, मुहम्मद fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam, and he था संयुक्त अरब into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss मुहम्मद और अन्य नबियों of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in आधुनिक history have been far less so.
इस is a सूची of टेबल of the verified oldest people in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically deals in longevity research, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
वो मिले Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or 13.
This led to news media attention in 1985, बाद calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation लिये calment 's आयु, परे कोई उचित question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura, जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी और is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, किमुरा, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest living man since the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
This is a समयरेखा of the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
The Civil Rights movement was a freedom struggle by African अमेरिकी in the 1950s और 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination, equal अवसर in नियुक्ति, शिक्षा और आवास, the right to vote and equal access to public facilities.
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a विधा of चट्टान म्यूज़िक कि विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock, the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by highly amplified distortion, विस्तारित गिटार solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally संबद्ध साथ मर्दानगी और machismo.
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large audiences, though they यहूद प्रायः derided by आलोचकों, a औकात आम throughout the history of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's एवोल्यूशन by discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़ influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed.
Bands in the New Wave of अंग्रेजों भारी मेटल ऐसे as आयरन Maiden followed in a similar vein.
Before the end of the decade, heavy मेटल प्रशंसक became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam metal became a commercial force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more चरम, आक्रामक शैलियाँ : thrash मेटल broke into the मुख्यधारा साथ bands ऐसे as मेटालिका, मेगाडेथ, Slayer, and Anthrax, while other styles of the most extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu मेटल, जिससे प्रायः incorporates तत्व of grunge और हिप hop ; and metalcore, which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk, have further expanded the definition of the genre.
The far-right ( also known as the extreme right ) refers to the उच्चतम उपाधि of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in समाज, और supports सर्वोच्चता of निश्चित individuals or समूह deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as innate विशेषताएँ of लोगों कि can नहीं be बदला.
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours, such as laziness or decadence, as the प्राथमिक स्त्रोत of सोशल inequalities.
The centre right—unlike the दूर right—claims that people can end their behavioural inferiority through changing their habits and choices.
The original far right, which emerged in France after the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, refused to accept the French Republic and supported a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy.
The far right is commonly associated with persons or groups who hold extreme राष्ट्रवादी, xenophobic, जातिवाद, religious fundamentalist or reactionary views.
The most extreme-right movements have pursued दमन and genocide against groups of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in some older texts थामस हाब्स of malmsbury, थी an अंग्रेज़ी पारस, best known today for his work on political philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan स्थापित the न्यास लिये सबसे of पश्चिमी राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र from the perspective of social contract theory.
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he also developed some of the fundamentals of यूरोपीय उदार विचार : the सही of the व्यक्तिगत ; the प्राकृतिक समता of सब मेन ; the कृत्रिम अक्षर of the राजनैतिक अनुक्रम ( जिससे led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view that all legitimate political power must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He was एक of the संस्थापकों of modern political philosophy.
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the वही शारीरिक कानून as अन्य पदार्थ और गति, remains influential ; और उसके खाता of human nature as self-interested cooperation, and of political communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse सरणी of अन्य फ़ील्ड, सहित इतिहास, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify, assess, and control the भाव of oneself, of अन्य, and of groups.
it can be divided into ability EI and trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence, whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires और रै stronger संबंध साथ personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence and whether it रै वृद्धिशील validity over IQ and the Big Five personality traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to offspring इससे इसके अभिभावक or ancestor.
This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism.
Through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some प्रजाति to evolve.
The study of heredity in जीवविज्ञान is पुकारा आनुवंशिकी, which includes the field of epigenetics.
For United States individual income tax, adjusted सकल आय ( agi ) is कुल gross income minus specific reductions.
Taxable income is adjusted gross income minus भत्तों लिये निजी exemptions and itemized deductions.
For most individual tax purposes, AGI is अधिक प्रासंगिक than gross income.
Gross income is sales price of goods or प्रॉपर्टी, ऋण cost of the property sold, plus other income.
It includes wages, ब्याज, dividends, business income, rental income, and all other types of income.
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a business or rental कार्यकलाप और 21 other specific items.
Several deductions ( e.g. medical खर्च and miscellaneous itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI.
Certain phase outs, सहित those of lower tax rates and itemized deductions, are based on levels of AGI.
Many states base राज्य आय कर on AGI with certain deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third सिंगल इससे Silversun Pickups ' debut album Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Later साथ jools हॉलैंड, and Last Call with Carson Daly.
The song is a playable track on चट्टान बैंड 2 और गिटार नायिका : संसार दौरे.
An alternate version of the song, with a length of 7:27, थी निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter संस्करण was played on FM and other XM channels.
This version was featured on उनके डेमो cd ( which featured early versions of four tracks ).
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone क्रमांक ; in the उत्तर अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना देशों ( देश कोड 1 ), it is the first three digits of a seven-digit phone number.
In other countries both the उपसर्ग और the number may have different lengths.
It shows which exchange the बाकी संख्याएँ refer to.
A full telephone क्रमांक is प्रायः बना up of देश कोड ( required for international calls only ), area code ( required for calls between telephone areas ), prefix, and subscriber number.
Some places restrict certain prefixes to fax numbers or कोशिका फोन तभी ; in अन्य स्थान ऐसे dedicated prefixes are not used.
As telephone technology advanced, the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many स्थान ; 485 in लंदन, UK, was once the GULliver exchange, but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( BP, pronounced, ; originally sold as glucophage ) is an मौखिक antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line ड्रग of चुनाव लिये the उपचार of type 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function.
Its use in gestational diabetes has been limited by सुरक्षा concerns.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध may be an महत्वपूर्ण factor.
Metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज उत्पादन by the liver.
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that has been conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular जटिलताओं of diabetes.
It helps reduce ldl cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and is not associated with weight gain.
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the World Health Organization Model List of Essential Medicines ( the अन्य होने glibenclamide ).
When prescribed appropriately, metformin causes few adverse effects ( the most आम is जठरांत्र परेशान ) और is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a गंभीर चिंता in overdose and when it is prescribed to people with contraindications, but otherwise, there is no significant risk.
First synthesized and found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin थी forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce blood sugar levels in people, and in 1957, French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical विचारण of metformin as a उपचार लिये मधुमेह.
It थी introduced to the United Kingdom in 1958, Canada in 1972, and the United States in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the संसार ; in the संयुक्त राज्य अलोन, अधिक than 48 लाख prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations.
The Mount Rushmore नेशनल मेमोरियल is a मूर्तिकला carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near Keystone, South Dakota, in the United States.
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son, Lincoln Borglum, Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, थामस जेफरसन, थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट और अब्राहम lincoln.
The entire memorial कवर और is ऊपर समुद्र level.
The tallest mountain in the region is harney शिखर ( ).
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of प्रसिद्ध लोगों into the ब्लैक Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region.
Robinson 's आरंभिक विचार थी to sculpt the needles ; however, gutzon borglum अस्वीकृत the Needles site because of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location, which also has the advantage of facing southeast लिये अधिकतम सूर्य एक्सपोज़र.
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark, Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the sculpture should have a more national focus, and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing federal funding, construction on the मेमोरियल began in 1927, और the राष्ट्रपतियों ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939.
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941, his son Lincoln borglum took over निर्माण.
Although the आरंभिक अवधारणा पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक अध्यक्ष to be depicted from head to waist, lack of funding forced construction to end in late October 1941.
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933, while it was still under निर्माण, और रै प्रबंधित the मेमोरियल to the उपस्थित day.
it attracts nearly three million people annually.
Charvet dress shirt from the 1930s, norsk folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front कमीज़, or button-up कमीज़ is a परिधान साथ a कॉलर, a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem, and sleeves with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly used by men, since महिलाओं प्रायः पहनें blouses.
The सामने खोलने is fastened using buttons or studs, and the cuffs close with buttons or cuff links.
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth, and are often accompanied by a jacket and tie, for उदाहरण with a suit or formalwear, but shirts are also worn more casually.
In British अंग्रेज़ी, पोशाक कमीज़ अर्थात् specifically the more formal evening garment worn with black- or white- tie, also discussed below.
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable collars attached with कॉलर studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to apply to all shirts ( with or without buttoned down collars ), being used as a पर्याय लिये `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, प्रशासनिक assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is celebrated on the पहला शुक्रवार in may
Blasting can be:
अक्खड़ blasting
Blast भट्टी
Rock धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक style, although he spent most of his working life in Rome.
His work is characterized by clarity, logic, and अनुक्रम, और favors लकीर over रंग.
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for such classically oriented artists as jacques-louis दाउद, jean-auguste-dominique ingres and Paul Cézanne.
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere, except लिये a छोटी काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered him back to France to serve as First Painter to the King.
Most of his works are history paintings of religious or mythological subjects that very प्रायः have a विशाल लैंडस्केप element.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians. - New York : Pocket Books. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks, Jack. - `` Singer Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs, Love in Home Town ''. - The Kentucky Post. - September 25, 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 ''. - Lexington Herald-Leader. - May 10, 1989.——Hurst, Jack. - `` Whitley 's Last Days ''. - Chicago Tribune. - May 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley ''. - United Press International. - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989, but he continues to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts, including five consecutive Number Ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes ``, `` When You Say Nothing at All ``, `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain ``, `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me `` and `` it ai n't nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
Statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania, लिखा in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a विधान प्राधिकार that governs a state, city, or county.
Typically, statutes कमांड or prohibit कुछ, or declare policy.
The word is often used to फर्क विधि बना by विधान bodies from case law, decided by courts, and regulations issued by government agencies.
Statutes are sometimes referred to as legislation or `` black letter law. ''
As a source of law, statutes are माना प्राथमिक प्राधिकार ( as opposed to secondary authority ).
Ideally all statutes जरूर be in सामंजस्य साथ the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ).
This word is used in contradistinction to the आम विधि.
Statutes acquire their force from the time of their passage, however जबतक वरना provided.
Statutes are of several kinds ; namely, पब्लिक or निजी.
Declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A temporary statute is one which is सीमित in इसके अवधि at the time of its enactment.
It continues in फ़ोर्स जबतक the समय of इसके limitation has expired, unless sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of which there is no सीमित समय, although it may not be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another which is temporary only, the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter.
Before a statute becomes law in some countries, it जरूर be सहमत upon by the उच्चतम executive in the government, and finally published as part of a code.
In many countries, statutes are व्यवस्थित in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications called codes, such as the United States Code.
In many nations statutory law is विशिष्ट इससे और अधीनस्थ to constitutional law.
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate बंद the आम iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
They proceed anterior and inferior along the medial border of the psoas प्रमुख मांसपेशियां.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal ligament about one third laterally from the insertion point of the वंक्षण स्नायु on the जननांग tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is प्रायः the धमनी प्रयुक्त to attach the renal artery to the recipient of a kidney transplant.
Steam is a digital distribution, digital rights management, multiplayer and communications platform developed by Valve Corporation.
It is used to distribute games and related media online, from small independent developers to larger software houses ; in अक्तूबर 2012, वाल्व विस्तारित the service to include non-gaming software.
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of software across multiple कंप्यूटर, जातियाँ सुविधाएँ ऐसे as मित्रों सूचियाँ और समूह, बादल saving, and in-game voice and chat functionality.
The software provides a freely available application programming interface, Steamworks, that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software products, including copy protection, networking and matchmaking, in-game उपलब्धियाँ और micro-transactions, और support लिये user-created सामग्री through भाप Workshop.
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows, the client has expanded to include OS X and Linux versions, and क्लाइंट साथ limited functionality on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices.
In जोड to होने a सेंट्रल हब लिये गेमिंग तन्त्र, वाल्व रै निर्मित a version of Steam with altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software, including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games उपलब्धियाँ through भाप, and 54 million active user accounts.
As of January 2013, Steam has seen over 6.6 लाख संयुक्त खिलाड़ी.
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the digital वितरण मार्केट लिये वीडियो games.
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank और rod from the Walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive.
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य, कर्ता, सिंगर, film producer, screenwriter and film director.
He is known for his slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी, television, stage and radio.
He was originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946, forming the famed कॉमेडी टोली of मार्टिन and Lewis.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub कार्य, वे स्ट्रक्चर in a successful series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures.
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman for the Muscular Dystrophy Association ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements from The American Comedy Awards, Los Angeles Film Critics संघ, और वेनिस फिल्मी पर्व, और he रै दो सितारों on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
in 2005, he प्राप्त the राज्यपालों पुरस्कार of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Board of Governors, which is the highest Emmy Award presented.
On February 22, 2009, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences awarded लुईस the जां hersholt Humanitarian Award.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into the North Sea coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं longest नदी in Europe, at about, with an average discharge of more than.
The राइन और the डेन्यूब formed सबसे of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the Roman Empire and, since those days, the Rhine has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has also served as a defensive feature और रै महरूम the आधार लिये क्षेत्रीय और अंतरराष्ट्रीय borders.
The many castles and प्रागैतिहासिक fortifications along the Rhine testify to its importance as a waterway.
River traffic could be stopped at these locations, usually for the purpose of collecting tolls, by the राज्य कि नियंत्रित that portion of the river.
Sri ( सिंहली )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री, IAST ; Śrī ), also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin, used in the Indian subcontinent as polite form of address समतुल्य to the अंग्रेज़ी `` mr. '' in लिखा और बोला भाषा, or as a शीर्षक of veneration लिये deities ( प्रायः translated as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन needs in-depth समझना of Structural Analysis.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals साथ the डिज़ाइन, निर्माण, और मेंटेनेंस of the शारीरिक and naturally built environment, including works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, and buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी, और it was defined to distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, geodesy, control engineering, structural engineering, biomechanics, nanotechnology, transportation engineering, earth science, atmospheric sciences, forensic engineering, municipal or शहरी अभियान्त्रिकी, जल संसाधन engineering, materials engineering, coastal engineering, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes प्लेस on सब स्तर : in the पब्लिक sector from municipal through to national governments, and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies.
कैथरीन dunham in Tropical Revue
Katherine dunham in Studio
Katherine dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review, Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing नृत्य वेशभूषा
Katherine dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – may 21, 2006 ) थी an American dancer, choreographer, author, educator, and social activist.
Dunham had one of the most कामयाब नृत्य करियर in अमरीकी और यूरोपीय थिएटर of the 20th century, and directed her own dance company for many years.
She has been called the `` matriarch and queen माँ of ब्लैक नृत्य ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and लैटिन अमेरिका और थी widely लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great ''.
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company, the तभी self-supported अमरीकी ब्लैक नृत्य troupe at that time, and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
Dunham was an innovator in African-American आधुनिक नृत्य as खूब as a leader in the field of dance anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly called peat moss due to इसके व्यापकता in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can store water, चूंकि दोनो जीना और dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside their cells ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species.
The empty cells सहायता retain water in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum मॉस grows, it can धीरे स्प्रेड into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants, including sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as खूब as orchids और मांसाहारी plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily क्युकी of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss 's cell walls.
in जोड, bogs, जैसे सब वेटलैंड्स, develop anaerobic soil conditions, which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic microbial action.
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings by लेने up cations, such as calcium and magnesium, and releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the right conditions, peat can accumulate to a गहराई of अनेक meters.
Different species of Sphagnum have अलग सहिष्णुता limits for flooding and pH, so any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem, with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of two or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches.
The top of the plant, or capitulum, has कॉम्पैक्ट क्लस्टर of यंग शाखाओं.
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various आकार, नामित स्टेम पत्ते ; the shape varies according to species.
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small, green, living cells ( chlorophyllose cells ), and विशाल, साफ, संरचनात्मक, मुर्दे कोशिकाएं ( hyaline cells ).
the latter have the large water-holding capacity.
The earliest version of the संजाल कार्ड, जारी manually rather than through an APTIS machine.
the पहला APTIS version of the Network Card.
This was used from the प्रारंभ of the aptis era in 1986/1987 जबतक खूब into the 1990s, as stocks had to be used up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare कंडीशन in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
This version is स्टिल in use as of 2007.
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by British Rail, upon the creation of their Network southeast क्षेत्रफल around लंदन, इंग्लैण्ड.
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by rail by offering discounts for adults and accompanying children on a चौड़ी दायरा of off-peak fares.
The range of छूट उपलब्धियाँ, और the दाम of the card, have varied since that time, but the card has always been valid for a year 's unlimited use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over इससे कोई staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent, by completing an application form - no photographic identification or other documentation is needed to buy or use the card.
It is one of a क्रमांक of concessionary fare schemes available on the British railway system.
The United Nations ( UN ; फ्रेंच : संगठन देस राष्ट्र unies, onu ) is the world 's largest, foremost, and most prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र शामिल promoting और facilitating cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights, civil rights, civil liberties, political freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 बाद संसार युद्ध ii to बदलें the लीग of राष्ट्र, to stop wars between countries, and to provide a platform for dialogue.
It contains multiple subsidiary organizations to carry out इसके मिशन.
At its founding, the UN had 51 member states ; as of 2011, वहीँ are 193.
From its offices around the world, the UN and इसके specialized एजेंसियों decide on सत्य और प्रशासनिक issues in regular meetings held throughout the year.
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international economic and social cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies, information, and facilities needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary न्यायिक अंग ) ; और the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ट्रस्टीशिप परिषद ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent UN System agencies शामिल the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ), the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent स्थिति is कि of the दफ्तर of secretary-general which has been held by Ban Ki-moon of South Korea since 2007.
The United Nations Headquarters resides in अंतरराष्ट्रीय territory in नई यॉर्क नगर, साथ further main offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.
The संगठन is financed इससे assessed और voluntary योगदान इससे its member states, and has six official languages : Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a neighborhood in the city of Miami Beach, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त राज्य, स्तिथ due ईस्ट of Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean.
The area encompasses all of the barrier islands of मियामी बीच दक्षिण of भारतीय Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, धन्यवाद to the विकास प्रयत्न of कार्ल G. फिशर, the lummus भाइयो, and John S. Collins, the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has gone through numerous कृत्रिम और प्राकृतिक परिवर्तन over the सालो, सहित a booming क्षेत्रीय अर्थव्यवस्था, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
As of 2010, about 39,186 निवासियों live in South Beach.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican Party मनोनीत लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जबकि the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election after सेवारत the अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 मत, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all पचास of the वर्तमान United States participated.
A number of factors बताइये why the election was so close.
Kennedy gained since वहीँ थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन, and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन gained among Protestants.
कैनेडी 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight, and he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in सब 50 राज्य बजाय of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination, secure endorsements, and, साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president, a phenomenon कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार, by बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो मामले, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
A poster लिये a c. 1884 American production of Macbeth, starring Thomas W. Keene.
Depicted, counter clockwise from top-left, are : Macbeth और banquo मिलें the witches ; बस after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a play written by विलियम शेक्सपियर.
It is considered one of उसके darkest and most powerful tragedies.
Set in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक प्रभाव उत्पादित when its protagonist, the Scottish lord Macbeth, chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power.
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent with a शासनकाल of murderous आतंक to रहो in शक्ति, eventually plunging the country into civil war.
In the end, he loses everything that gives अर्थ और purpose to उसके जीवन पहले losing his life itself.
The play is believed to have महरूम लिखा between 1603 and 1607, and is most commonly dated 1606.
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably Shakespeare 's play is April 1611, when Simon forman अंकित देखकर ऐसे a खेल at the Globe Theatre.
It was first प्रकाशित in the folio of 1623, possibly from a prompt book.
It was most likely written during the reign of James I, who था महरूम जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he succeeded to the English throne in 1603.
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company, and of all the plays शेक्सपियर लिखा दौरान James’s reign, Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest त्रासदी, और tells the स्टोरी of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland.
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by his wife, मैकबेथ हत्याएं King Duncan and takes the throne for himself.
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia, and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is मजबूर to कमिट अधिक और अधिक हत्याएं to protect खुद इससे enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and महिला मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance, madness, and death.
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland, Macduff, and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ), a history of England, Scotland and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare and his contemporaries, although the कार्यक्रम in the खेल differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of थिएटर, कुछ मानना that the play is cursed, and will not mention its title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of many centuries, the play has आकर्षित कुछ of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
It has महरूम adapted to फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, opera, novels, comic books, and other media.
The मिल्टन hershey स्कूल is a private philanthropic ( pre-K through 12 ) boarding school in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School, the institution was founded और वित्तपोषित by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति Milton Snavely Hershey and his wife, Catherine Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally स्थापित लिये impoverished, स्वस्थ, Caucasian, male orphans, while today it serves students of various backgrounds.
The Milton hershey स्कूल विश्वास, जिससे निधि the स्कूल, owns controlling ब्याज in the Hershey Company and owns the Hershey Entertainment and Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six billion dollars in assets, the Milton Hershey School is one of the wealthiest schools in the world.
The school is overseen by a फलक of Managers.
The school फिलहाल serves 1,818 विद्यार्थी, और योजनाएँ to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A member of कोर : गठबन्धन लिये आवासीय Education, it is the largest residential education program in the US.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free and open e-book मानक
Electronic article, articles in scholarly journals or मैगज़ीन कि can be accessed via electronic transmission
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The सीएसए is the संघीय u.S. ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
the अधिनियम भी परोसा as the नेशनल implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created पाँच schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and ड्रग प्रशासन, determine जिससे substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
second-language अधिग्रहण or second-language learning is the process by which people learn a second language.
second-language अधिग्रहण ( प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) also refers to the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process.
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is named second-language acquisition, it can also incorporate the सीखना of तीसरा, चौथी, or subsequent languages.
Second-language acquisition refers to कया learners do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching.
The academic अनुशासन of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics.
It is broad-based and अपेक्षाकृत नई.
As well as the various branches of linguistics, second-language acquisition is also closely related to psychology, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान, और शिक्षा.
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself, the terms second-language acquisition research, second-language studies, and second-language acquisition studies हैं also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary फ़ील्ड, और क्युकी of this it is difficult to identify a precise starting date.
However, it does appear to have developed a great deal चूंकि the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning process, but in recent सालो सीखना और अधिग्रहण have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage language learning, but it does not usually चरितार्थ bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of सीखना a भाषा, not the process itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in fields such as education and psychology, however, often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather, the learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages involve the same fundamental processes in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly कैसा भाषा is सीखे, and many issues are still unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language अधिग्रहण, but none are accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers.
Due to the interdisciplinary प्रकृति of the फ़ील्ड of second-language acquisition, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future.
Forbes list of billionaires is an annual ranking of the world 's wealthiest people, compiled and published by Forbes, an अमरीकी नेशनल कारोबार पत्रिका.
The total net worth of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत on the list is estimated, in United States dollars, based on their assets and accounting for debt.
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a single day, due to daily fluctuations among एक्सचेंज rates and stock valuations.
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law enforcement agency कि is भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn सदस्यों हैं divided among the Special Agents and the Uniformed Division.
जबतक कूच 1, 2003, the Service was part of the United States Department of the Treasury.
The U.S. Secret Service has two distinct क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering missions such as रोकथाम और छानबीन of counterfeiting of u.S. currency and U.S. treasury securities, and investigation of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families, such as the President, past presidents, vice राष्ट्रपतियों, अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार, visiting heads of राज्य, और विदेशी embassies ( प्रति an अनुबंध साथ the u.S. राज्य विभाग 's ब्यूरो of राजनयिक Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
The Secret Service 's initial responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी, which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
The agency then evolved into the United States ' first domestic प्रज्ञा और counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ( ATF ), आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन ( बर्फ ), और आतंरिक Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` me और bobby mcgee '' is a song written by Kris Kristofferson and Fred Foster, originally performed by Roger Miller.
Others performed the song later, including Kristofferson himself, and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death, making the song the second posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart history after `` ( sittin ' on ) the डॉक of the खाड़ी `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a समय of विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक अवसाद और कुल युद्ध.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932, as his घरेलू नीतियों पारिभाषित अमरीकी उदारतावाद लिये the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated incumbent रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in नवम्बर 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and सोवियत सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed to उपज relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, लकिन तब relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall गली by the प्रतिभूति and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, साथ the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions to the allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease aid to the देशों लड़ against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the संसार 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, और the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American political झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह सालो of his presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big नगर मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, African Americans and rural white Southerners.
He also influenced the बाद सृष्टि of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as एक of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a छोटी बाएँ of बीच. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, Mara, and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in Los Angeles and has स्प्रेड to अन्य भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य, कनाडा, मैक्सिको, and Central America.
the बहुमत of the gang is ethnically composed of Central Americans and active in urban and suburban areas.
In the U.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax County, Virginia, Montgomery County, Maryland, and Prince George 's County, मेरीलैंड ; long द्वीप, नई यॉर्क ; the बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स क्षेत्रफल ; शेर्लोट, उत्तर कैरोलिना ; and Houston, Texas.
There is also a उपस्थिति of MS-13 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Members of MS फर्क themselves by tattoos covering the body and also often the face, as well as the use of their own sign language.
They are notorious for their use of violence and a subcultural moral कोड that predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
This cruelty of the distinguished members of the `` maras '' or `` mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें a पाथ to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border.
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected गिरोह सदस्यों – netting सैंकड़ों of रखवाले आरपार the country.
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the United States on September 13, 2005.
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic archaeology, with each episode focusing on an एफबीआई मामला संचिका concerning the रहस्य पीछे इंसान remains brought by एफबीआई खास एजेंट seeley बूथ ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ).
The बाकी of the प्रमुख डाल शामिल michaela conlin, T. J. Thyne, Eric Millegan, Tamara Taylor, Jonathan Adams, and John Francis Daley.
Created by हार्ट hanson, the श्रेणी is very loosely based on the life and writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs, who also produces the show.
Its title अक्षर, temperance ब्रेनन, is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series.
Conversely, dr. ब्रेनन writes कामयाब mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs.
Bones is a joint production by Josephson Entertainment, Far Field Productions and 20th Century Fox Television.
The series has completed airing its eighth season and has been नवीनीकृत लिये a ninth season.
Super Bowl XXV was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियन नई यॉर्क दिग्गज to decide the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season.
The दिग्गज पराजित the बिल्स by the score of 20–19, winning their second ever Super Bowl.
It is the तभी सुपर Bowl decided by one point.
The game was held at Tampa Stadium in Tampa, Florida, on January 27, 1991, during the ऊँचाई of the Gulf War.
It was thus played अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The कार्यवाही शामिल a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl रूप बाद finishing the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 13-3 record, and leading the league in total points scored with 428.
In advancing to their second Super Bowl, the Giants also posted a 13-3 regular season record, but with a ball-control ठोकर और a रक्षा कि अनुमत a लीग कम 211 अंक.
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of the uprights, अग्रणी to a दिग्गज विजय, और starting a four-game खोने streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
The Giants set a Super Bowl record holding possession of the ball for 40 मिनट्स और 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, और बना a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव कि खपत a सुपर कटोरी record 9:29 off the clock.
Giants running back Ottis Anderson, who carried the ball 21 times for 102 गज और एक touchdown, थी नामित सुपर कटोरी MVP.
He was the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete Rozelle Trophy '' ( named for the former commissioner ).
Anderson also recorded one reception for सात गज.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), थी an african-american Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक अमेरिकी.
Detractors accused him of preaching racism, black सर्वोच्चता, और हिंसा.
he रै महरूम पुकारा one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by श्वेत supremacists, it थी rumored—when he was young, and at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother was placed in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल, और he was placed in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for breaking and entering.
In prison, Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group, but मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam सिर इलियास मुहम्मद led उसे to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the United States, where he founded Muslim मस्जिदे, inc. और the संगठन of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam, he थी assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the group.
मैल्कम x 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the सिविल अधिकारों गति 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it, `` i किया अनेक things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil अधिकारों नेताओ, he जारी to emphasize pan-africanism, ब्लैक self-determination, और self-defense.
The third season of 90210, an American television series, premiered on सोमवार सितंबर 13, 2010.
the cw officially renewed the show for a third season on February 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule, they announced their decision to move 90210 to Monday नाइट्स at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip Girl.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 and was met with generally positive reviews from critics.
The season picks up at the end of summer and focuses on the विद्यार्थी senior year of high school.
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame, a new relationship between Silver और navid और a confused Teddy who decides to reveal to his family and friends he is gay.
It also deals with the aftermath of नाओमी क्लार्क 's उत्पीड़न.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes, Tristan Wilds, AnnaLynne mccord, Ryan Eggold, Jessica Stroup, Michael Steger, Jessica Lowndes, Matt Lanter, Gillian Zinser, Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair continued her भूमिका as कार्यपालिका producer for the season.
The season premiered to 1.96 million दर्शक और a 0.9 दरजा in the adults 18–49 demographic.
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '', hit season highs in all key demos साथ 2.1 in the cw 's निशाना डेमो of महिलाओं 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It was also the most watched एपीसोड in over a साल साथ 2.2 लाख दर्शक tuning in.
the ऋतु finale aired on May 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 लाख live viewers and a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating.
It was released on DVD in the United States on August 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms, और उनके territories और dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
वो is परम् राज्यपाल of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और, in कुछ of उसके realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first चार aforementioned देशों, एलिज़ाबेथ is महारानी of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in London and educated privately at घर.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, इससे जिससे समय वो थी the वारिस presumptive.
She began to undertake public कर्तव्य दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, in जिससे वो served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग, with whom she has four children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
Her coronation service took प्लेस in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's अनेक ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional परिवर्तन in उसके realms, ऐसे as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, सुनहरी, और डायमंड jubilees in 1977, 2002, और 2012, क्रमशः.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern आयरलैंड, the falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took प्लेस on नवम्बर 2, 2010 साथ with other elections to the United States Senate in other states as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections.
Republican मार्को rubio, पूर्व स्पीकर of the Florida House of Representatives, defeated independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race.
One term Senator mel मार्टिनेज थी निर्वाचित in a बहुत close race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on दिसम्बर 2, 2008 that he would not seek re-election to the Senate, and would resign prior to the end of his term.
In August 2009, Governor Charlie Crist घोषित कि he होता नियुक्त उसके पूर्व मुख्य of Staff, George LeMieux, a Republican, to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez.
Governor Crist publicly announced he was running लिये the सीट in mid-2009.
At the time he received many रिपब्लिकन समर्थन, ऐसे as the नेशनल रिपब्लिकन senatorial Committee, Martinez, and the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain.
His support of the American Recovery और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 ठेस his popularity among conservatives, and candidate Marco Rubio surged.
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop out of the रिपब्लिकन प्राथमिक and run as an independent.
The National Republican senatorial कमेटी withdrew इसके समर्थन of crist and demanded a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign.
Congressman Kendrick Meek was the first Democrat to declare उसके इरादे to run.
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the Libertarian Party on the बैलट लिये सीनेटर in फ्लोरिडा 's history.
Satellite view of दोहा
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the राज्य of Qatar.
Located on the coast of the Persian Gulf,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is also one of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is Qatar 's largest city, with over 60 % of the nation 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding उपनगरों, and is also the economic centre of the country.
Doha also serves as the seat of government of Qatar, which is शासित by शेख़ हमद बिन खलीफा al थानी.
Doha is home to the शिक्षा नगर, an क्षेत्रफल devoted to research and education.
Doha was the साईट of the पहला ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian Games, which was the largest एशियाई Games ever held.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the खेल at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup.
Doha hosted the unfccc जलवायु negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and will host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
The World पेट्रोलियम परिषद आयोजित the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011.
Paranasal sinuses हैं a समूह of चार युग्म air-filled स्पेसेस कि घेर the nasal गुहा ( ऊर्ध्वहनु sinuses ), above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ), between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ), and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The sinuses are named लिये the फेशियल हड्डियों in which they are located.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for any goal other than the creation of value for the end ग्राहक to be अपव्यय, and thus a target for elimination.
Working from the perspective of the customer who consumes a product or service, `` value '' is पारिभाषित as कोई कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम कि a ग्राहक would be willing to pay for.
essentially, झुकना is centered on preserving value with less work.
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the टोयोटा उत्पादन प्रणाली ( tps ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s.
tps is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके फ़ोकस on कटौती of the असली Toyota seven wastes to improve overall customer value, but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved.
The steady growth of Toyota, from a small company to the world 's largest automaker, has focused ध्यान on कैसा it रै हासिल this success.
icarly logo
iCarly is an American sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon, which premiered on September 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` idate Sam & Freddie '', etc. as specials, despite their being regular episodes.
Every episode title begins with a lower case i जिससे represents the अंतरजाल, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show was nominated for an Emmy पुरस्कार लिये बकाया Children 's Program in 2009.
The series starring Miranda Cosgrove as Carly Shay, a 13-year-old जो becomes an अंतरजाल स्टार.
The series ended on November 23, 2012 with the one-hour खास एपीसोड `` iGoodbye ''.
A कुल of 7 सीज़न and 109 episodes were broadcast.
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers, with the special episode `` iSaved अपना जीवन '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition, tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) टेपों it और पोस्ट it ऑनलाइन बगैर telling उन्हें.
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter, the ऑनलाइन दर्शक clamors लिये अधिक और the icarly webcast is born.
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence, Carly, Sam, and Freddie find out that they have also become online celebrities as their show – which सुविधाएँ हुनर प्रतियोगिताओं, व्यंजनों, problem-solving, and random dancing – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in सिएटल, वॉशिंगटन साथ उसके 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment.
Their mother has never been seen or उल्लेखित, लकिन उनके पिता, स्टीवन शे ( दाउद chisum ), is a U.S. Air Force officer temporarily stationed on a submarine, and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
westlife यहूद an आयरिश लड़के band which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh, the group 's final line-up consisted of nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian mcfadden थी a सदस्य from 1998 until his departure in 2004.
Westlife sold over 50 million records worldwide, a total कि शामिल स्टुडियो एल्बम, singles, वीडियो रिलीज, and compilation albums.
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK इतिहास ), tying साथ चट्टान रिचर्ड and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley.
They achieved a कुल of 26 शीर्ष ten singles over their 14-year career.
By 2010, Westlife was listed in the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड, as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century.
They also won The Record of the Year ( the तभी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार आधारित on पब्लिक मत in the uk ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स and in 2012, the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history.
despite उनके यूरोपीय और एशियाई कामयाबी, Westlife never managed to break into the U.S. market, achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
In October 2011, Westlife announced their intention to split in 2012, following उनके महानतम हिट्स दौरे और the रिलीज of their Greatest Hits album.
The boyband 's final कॉन्सर्ट यहूद आयोजित on 22 और 23 जून 2012 at croke Park Stadium in Dublin.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tickets, sold out in a record-breaking 5 मिनट्स और the latter screened सजीव in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, which include retinol, retinal, retinoic acid and several provitamin a carotenoids among जिससे beta-carotene is the most important.
Vitamin A has multiple functions, it is important for growth और विकास, लिये the मेंटेनेंस of the प्रतिरक्षा system and good vision.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing अणु, कि is जरुरी लिये दोनो low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision.
विटामिन a भी कृत्यों in a very different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid, which is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells.
In foods of animal origin, the major form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, जिससे is परिवर्तित to रेटिनॉल ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine.
The retinol form functions as a storage form of the विटामिन, और can be परिवर्तित to and from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized इससे विटामिन a, रै तभी आंशिक विटामिन a कार्यकलाप, और करता नहीं फलन in the retina for the visual cycle.
Retinoic acid is used for growth और सेल्यूलर differentiation.
सब फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन a have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached, called a retinyl group.
Both structural features are अनिवार्य लिये vitamin activity.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl groups, which are used in the देह to योगदान to विटामिन a स्तर.
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a सिंगल retinyl group, which give them some vitamin activity.
None of the अन्य carotenes have vitamin activity.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and रै विटामिन कार्यकलाप in humans.
Vitamin A can be found in two principal फ़ॉर्म in foods :
Retinol, the form of vitamin A अवशोषित when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance.
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is मिला in ऊतकों in a रूप of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl एसीटेट or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone बजती ), लकिन no अन्य carotenoids, फलन as provitamin a in herbivores और सर्वाहारी animals, which possess the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert कोई carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids होने फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन A for these species ).
सेलिना मारी गोमेज़ ( born जुलाई 22, 1992 ) is an American singer and actress.
She बना उसके डेब्यू as a child actress in Barney & Friends.
In 2007, गोमेज़ आए to prominence as a अभिनीत cast member in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place.
She signed to Hollywood रिकॉर्ड the following साल, and became the founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene.
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year Without बरसात ( 2010 ), और जब the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who Says ``, and `` Love You like a Love Song ``.
After the release of television films and their accompanying soundtracks, गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य फिल्मी डेब्यू in ramona और Beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011.
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly प्लेस और the अंतराल of सेलिना गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012, she focused on her film career, serving as a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year.
Her debut solo album is tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in summer 2013, and is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry, Gomez is शामिल in परोपकारी activities through charity work and various social and environmental causes.
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी r & b और पॉप singer-songwriter, actress, and model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the सीट of सरकारी of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of California 's expansive सेंट्रल घाटी.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento was cited by Time पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter, Sr., his son John Sutter, Jr., और जेम्स W. मार्शल.
sacramento grew जल्दी धन्यवाद to the protection of Sutter 's Fort, which was established by Sutter in 1839.
दौरान the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सुनहरा फटाफट, sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट, a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच, and a terminus for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly known as sacramento राज्य or सैक राज्य, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is located in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, डेविस is स्तिथ in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned research हॉस्पिटल, is स्तिथ in the नगर of Sacramento.
मेमोरियल दिन is a United States federal holiday which occurs every year on the final Monday of May.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving in the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
Formerly known as Decoration Day, it originated बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War.
By the 20th सदी मेमोरियल Day had been extended to honor all Americans who have died in all wars.
it typically marks the प्रारंभ of the summer vacation season, while Labor Day marks its end.
Many people visit cemeteries and memorials, विशेषकर to honor those who have died in military service.
Many volunteers place an American flag on each grave in नेशनल कब्रिस्तान.
By the early 20th century, Memorial दिन थी an अवसर लिये अधिक सामान्य expressions of memory, as people visited the graves of their deceased relatives in church cemeteries, whether they had served in the military or not.
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to खरीदारी, family gatherings, fireworks, trips to the beach, and national media events.
Annual Decoration Days for particular कब्रिस्तान हैं आयोजित on a संडे in लेट वसन्त or early summer in some rural areas of the American South, notably in the mountains.
In cases involving a family graveyard where remote पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न, इस may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles.
People gather on the designated day and put flowers on क़ब्रों और नवीनीकृत सम्पर्क with kinfolk and others.
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground, '' the traditional term for a potluck meal in which लोगों प्रयुक्त to स्प्रेड the बर्तन out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
It is believed that this practice began before the American Civil War and thus may reflect the real origin of the `` memorial day '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died जबकि सेवारत, जबकि दिग्गजों दिन मनाता the सेवा of all U.S. military veterans, living or dead.
Mt. zion गिरिजाघर राज्य history marker near Philadelphia, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer प्रोजेक्ट ) थी a अभियान in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to register as many African American voters as possible in Mississippi, which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
The project also set up दर्जनों of स्वतंत्रता स्कूलों, स्वतंत्रता घरों, and community centers in small towns throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ), a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the four major civil अधिकारों संगठन ( SNCC, CORE, NAACP and SCLC ).
Most of the impetus, leadership, and financing लिये the Summer Project came from the SNCC.
Robert Parris मूसा, SNCC field secretary and co-director of COFO, directed the summer project.
Blues is the नाम दिए to दोनो a musical रूप और a music genre that originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues form, ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and blues, and rock and roll is characterized by विशिष्ट chord progressions, of which the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the most common.
The blue notes that, for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major scale, are also an important part of the ध्वनि.
The blues genre is based on the blues रूप लकिन possesses अन्य विशेषताएँ ऐसे as specific lyrics, bass lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to शहरी ब्लूज़ कि यहूद अधिक or less popular during different periods of the 20th century.
Best ज्ञात हैं the Delta, Piedmont, Jump, and Chicago blues styles.
World War II marked the transition from acoustic to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़ and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience, especially white listeners.
In the 1960s और 1970s, a hybrid form called blues-rock evolved.
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '', meaning melancholy and sadness ; an early use of the term in this sense is मिला in जार्ज colman 's one-act तमाशा ब्लू शैतानों ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in african-american म्यूज़िक may be पुरानी, it रै been attested to since 1912, when Hart Wand 's `` Dallas Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues composition.
In lyrics the phrase is often used to describe a उदास mood.
A quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर or 25 सेंट.
The quarter has been उत्पादित चूंकि 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ जिससे is अधिक आम in अन्य भाग of the संसार, originated साथ the अभ्यास of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. दो wedges, प्रत्येक कील an आठवीं, thus a quarter of the Spanish real, was a common nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday मनाये throughout मैक्सिको और around the world in other cultures.
The holiday focuses on महफिलों of परिवार और मित्रों to दुवा for and remember friends and family members who have died.
It is particularly celebrated in Mexico, where it is a national holiday, and सब बैंको हैं बंद.
The celebration takes place on November 1 and 2, in connection with the Catholic छुट्टियाँ of सब संतो ' Day and All Souls ' Day.
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using sugar skulls, marigolds, और the पसंदीदा भोजन और पेय of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts.
They also leave possessions of the मृतक.
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous observances dating back hundreds of years and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In ब्राज़ील, dia de finados is a पब्लिक अवकाश that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches.
In Spain, there are festivals और parades, और, at the समाप्त of the दिन, people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in यूरोपीय, और similarly themed celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures.
अनीता mk VIII.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the संसार 's पहला all- इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डेस्कटॉप calculators.
Designed and built by the घंटी पंच co.
in Britain, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer division, they used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in their लॉजिक circuits और nixie tubes लिये उनके numerical displays.
They were the first of a series of desktop and hand-held electronic calculators that the company was to develop and sell under the अनीता नाम into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) was the first President of the United States ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution, which replaced the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और established the position of President.
Washington was elected President as the सर्वसम्मत चुनाव of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, and he served two terms in office.
He oversaw the creation of a strong, well-financed नेशनल सरकारी कि कायम neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed rebellion, and won acceptance among Americans of all types.
His leadership style established many forms and rituals of government that have been प्रयुक्त चूंकि, ऐसे as using a कैबिनेट system and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the peaceful transition from his presidency to the presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st सदी.
वॉशिंगटन was hailed as `` father of his country `` even during his lifetime.
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his wealthy planter family owned तम्बाकू बागानों and slaves.
After both his father and older brother died when he was young, Washington became personally and professionally attached to the शक्तिशाली विलियम फेयरफैक्स, जो promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier.
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the colonial शक्तियां दौरान the पहला चरण of the French and Indian War.
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution, Washington प्रबंधित to फ़ोर्स the अंग्रेजों आउट of बोस्टन in 1776, लकिन was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City.
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of शीत, he पराजित the अंग्रेजों in दो लड़ाइयों, retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
Because of his strategy, Revolutionary शक्तियां captured दो major British armies at Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of उसके सेनापतियों, प्रोत्साहन of मनोबल और ability to hold together the army, coordination with the state governors and state militia units, relations with Congress and attention to supplies, logistics, and training.
In बैटल, however, वॉशिंगटन was repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies.
After victory had been finalized in 1783, वॉशिंगटन resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize power, proving his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism.
असंतुष्ट साथ the कमजोरियों of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution.
Elected unanimously as the first President of the United States in 1789, he attempted to लाओ प्रतिद्वंद्वी गिरोहों साथ to unify the nation.
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national debt, to implement an effective tax system and to create a नेशनल बैंको ( despite विपक्ष इससे थामस Jefferson ).
वॉशिंगटन proclaimed the संयुक्त States neutral in the wars raging in Europe after 1793.
He avoided युद्ध साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795, despite intense opposition from the Jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the Federalist Party, he supported its कार्यक्रम.
Washington 's विदाई पता थी an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning against partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his home, Mount vernon, और उसके घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he managed a variety of enterprises.
He freed all his slaves by उसके final will.
Washington had a vision of a great और शक्तिशाली स्वदेश कि होता be built on republican lines using federal power.
He sought to use the national सरकारी to बचाना स्वतंत्रता, improve अवसंरचना, खोलें the पश्चिमी lands, promote commerce, found a permanent capital, reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism.
At his death, Washington was eulogized as `` first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his देशवासियों '' by Henry Lee.
The federalists बना उसे the प्रतीक of their party but for many years, the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
As the leader of the पहला कामयाब क्रान्ति विरूद्ध a औपनिवेशिक empire in world history, Washington became an international icon for liberation and nationalism, especially in France and Latin America.
Fiscal Year 2012 u.S. संघीय Spending – Cash or Budget Basis.
Fiscal Year 2012 u.S. संघीय Receipts.
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the अध्यक्ष 's प्रस्ताव to the u.S. कॉंग्रेस which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by विधि to pass a बजट annually और to submit the बजट passed by both houses to the President for signature.
Congressional decisions are governed by rules and legislation regarding the संघीय बजट प्रक्रम.
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and Senate समितियों और लिये appropriations subcommittees, जिससे तब स्वीकृति व्यक्तिगत appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs.
If Congress fails to pass an सालाना बजट ( as has been the case since 2009 ), a series of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures.
After Congress approves an appropriations विधेयक, it is sent to the President, who may sign it into law, or may veto it ( as he would a budget when passed by the Congress ).
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress, which can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in प्रत्येक कक्ष.
Congress may also combine all or some appropriations बिल्स into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In addition, the president may request and the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or आपात supplemental appropriations bills.
Several government agencies provide बजट आंकड़ा and analysis.
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ), Congressional Budget Office, the दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन और बजट ( omb ) और the u.S. Treasury Department.
These agencies have reported that the संघीय सरकारी is facing a series of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices, while expenditures have विस्तारित लिये युद्धों, बेरोजगारी बीमे and other safety net spending.
In the long-run, expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and medicaid हैं प्रक्षिप्त to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( also, Tok Pisin : Niugini, Dutch : Nieuw Guinea, and ; historically : Papua ) is the world 's second largest island, बाद ग्रीनलैंड, covering a जमीन क्षेत्रफल of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean, it lies geographically to the ईस्ट of the मलय द्वीपसमूह, साथ जिससे it is sometimes included as part of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago.
Geologically it is a part of the वही tectonic plate as Australia.
When world sea levels were low, the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ), combining with lands अभी inundated into the tectonic महाद्वीप of sahul, भी ज्ञात as Greater Australia.
The two landmasses became separated जब the क्षेत्रफल अभी ज्ञात as the Torres Strait flooded after the end of the last glacial period.
anthropologically, नई गिनी is considered part of Melanesia.
Politically, the पश्चिमी हाफ of the द्वीप comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua.
The पूर्वी हाफ फ़ॉर्म the मेनलैंड of the country of Papua New Guinea.
The island has a population of about 7.5 million, with a very low population density of तभी 8 inh/km2.
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier, flatter, and less fertile southern counterpart, Australia, by its much higher rainfall and its active volcanic geology, with its उच्चतम पाइंट, puncak jaya, reaching an उन्नयन of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna, with marsupials, सहित wallabies and possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent genera, वहीँ हैं no pre-human स्वदेशी placental mammals.
सूअर, अनेक अतिरिक्त species of rats, and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with human colonization.
The इंसान उपस्थिति on the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of Africa.
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent center of कृषि, साथ प्रमाण of सिंचाई going back at least 10,000 years.
Because of the समय गहराई of इसके inhabitation और इसके अत्यधिक fractured लैंडस्केप, an unusually ऊँची क्रमांक of भाषाएं हैं बोला on the island, with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most are classified as पापुआई भाषाएं, a generally accepted geographical term which a minority of authors hold to be a genetic one.
A number of Austronesian languages are बोला on the coast और on offshore islands.
In the 16th century Spanish explorers खोजा the island and called it Nueva Guinea.
In recent history western नई गिनी थी शामिल in the डच East Indies colony.
The germans annexed the उत्तरी coast of the पूर्वी हाफ of the island as German New Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial power, whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( जिससे थी already शासी the अंग्रेजों अर्जी, नामित the Territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate.
the पूर्वी हाफ of the island was granted independence from Australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975.
The western half gained independence from the Dutch in 1961, but became part of इंडोनेशिया जल्द afterwards in विवादास्पद circumstances.
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th एपीसोड of the sitcom Seinfeld, and name of a fictional New York street gang.
Their sign is क्रासिंग the हैंड्स, साथ one hand with all the fingers 'up ' and spread out.
The other hand has all but the thumb and pointer finger up, लिये a कुल of आठ ( 8 ).
The gang is named for the 8th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, Martin Van Buren ( who was the first president from New York ).
इस थी the 14th episode for the 8th season.
It aired on February 6, 1997.
Bevo चिह्न
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or near beer, brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of निषेध, जब बियर, वाइन और आसुत liquors, were made illegal for thirteen years.
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages were निषिद्ध in 1916 by the United States armed forces.
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919, and Bevo was by far the most popular of the many `` खाद्यान्न पेय '' or `` निकट beers '' of the time.
At the peak of इसके लोकप्रियता in the जल्दी 1920s, more than five million cases of Bevo were sold annually.
Renard with a मग of bevo, चित्रित in टेरा cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building, St. Louis
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` Bevo the Beverage ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined इससे the शब्द `` पेय '' और the Slavic language word for beer `` pivo '', and was pronounced `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising featured the अक्षर `` renard the फॉक्स `` ( आधारित on the समर्थक of a medieval French folk-tale ), and promotional mugs with this character were manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a श्रेणी of boat-bodied गाड़ियाँ in इसके st. लुई दुकानें पुकारा the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for promotion.
Seven are believed to have महरूम निर्मित on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving example was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
बिलबोर्ड विज्ञापन Bevo in Trenton, New Jersey, 1917
A contemporary विज्ञापन पढ़ा `` कूलिंग and invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the case इससे अपना पंसारी, druggist, or dealer. ''
The paper label on the वापस of the बोतल read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink.
Appetizing - Healthful - Nutritious - ताज़ा.
मिल्क or जल may contain bacteria.
BEVO never does. ''
Bevo became भाग of the लोकप्रिय संस्कृति of the time, and is mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to द्वितीयक कठबोली उपयोग of the शब्द ; लिये उदाहरण, in American military slang a young and inexperienced officer was called a `` Bevo ''.
the विश्वविद्यालयों of Texas named its mascot `` Bevo '', a name which has stuck to this day.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the पेय, `` तुम ca n't रहो up on Bevo '', in his 1917 army revue, Yip Yip Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled बूटलेग बियर और liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, cut into Bevo 's marketshare.
With sales flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, anheuser-busch stopped production.
The Bevo Mill, st. लुई, in 2008
The Bevo building, with the Renard character prominently displayed at the corners, still operates as a bottling facility at their main ब्रेवरी in st. Louis, Missouri.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by अगस्त anheuser Busch, Sr. in 1917.
It थी बंद in 2009, but it reopened in October 2009 under new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the short story `` The Killers `` by Ernest Hemingway ; as well as in Babbitt by sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the काउंटर दवा प्रयुक्त for the treatment of acid reflux, heartburn, and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ).
Foremilk and Hindmilk नमूने of इंसान स्तन milk
A glass of pasteurized गाय मिल्क
Milk is a white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals.
It is the प्राथमिक सोर्स of पोषण for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food.
अर्लy- lactation मिल्क contains colostrum, which carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk of many diseases in the baby.
It also contains many other nutrients.
As an agricultural उत्पाद, मिल्क is extracted from mammals and used as food for humans.
विश्वव्यापी, दुग्ध खेतो उत्पादित about 730 million tonnes of milk in 2011.
India is the world 's largest निर्माता और उपभोक्ता of मिल्क, yet neither exports nor imports milk.
New Zealand, the European Union 's 27 member राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products.
China and Russia are the संसार 's largest importers of milk and milk products.
Throughout the संसार, वहीँ are more than 6 billion consumers of milk and milk products.
over 750 लाख people live within dairy farming households.
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition and food security particularly in developing countries.
Improvements in livestock और दुग्ध technology offer significant promise in reducing poverty and malnutrition in the world.
Motorcycle speedway, usually referred to as speedway, is a मोटरसाइकिल खेल involving चार और sometimes up to छह राइडर्स competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and racing takes प्लेस on a चपटा ओवल track प्रायः consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use this surface to slide their machines sideways, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight sections of the track the मोटरसाइकिल reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing होने practised in the यूएसए पहले the पहला संसार युद्ध और in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s.
There are now both domestic and international competitions in a number of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the उच्चतम overall स्कोरिंग व्यक्तिगत in the स्पीडवे ग्रैंड Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
Speedway is लोकप्रिय in सेंट्रल और उत्तरी Europe and to a lesser extent in Australia and North America.
a रूपांतर of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic speedway events are regulated by FIM affiliated नेशनल मोटर खेल federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate.
In humans, the most important सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3.
cholecalciferol ( विटामिन d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can भी synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although विटामिन d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and कुत्तो can नहीं synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
however, as साथ अन्य यौगिकों commonly पुकारा विटामिन, vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid बीमारी due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet, and it is believed that संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the मेंटेनेंस of पर्याप्त serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but, क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप, no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is from their diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
calcidiol is भी परिवर्तित to calcitriol बाहर of the गुर्दे लिये अन्य उद्देश्य, ऐसे as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग महिलाओं.
The Duramax is a सामान्य मोटर्स डीज़ल engine family for light- and medium duty trucks, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by dmax, a joint venture between GM and Isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
इस इंजन थी initially संस्थापित in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks and has been an option since then in pickups, vans, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, production at Moraine was reportedly सीमित to लगभग 200,000 engines per year.
On May 9, 2007, DMAX announced the production of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 डीज़ल at इसके moraine facility.
duramax LML
balto.
is also a traditional लिखा संक्षिप्त for Baltimore, Maryland.
प्रतिमा of balto in Central Park ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome, in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage, Alaska, to nenana, अलास्का, by ट्रैन और तब to nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease.
The run is commemorated by the annual iditarod ट्रेल sled Dog Race.
Balto थी नामित after the Sami explorer Samuel Balto.
Balto died at the आयु of 14.
Professor Stephen Hawking, known for being a सैद्धांतिक physicist, has appeared in many works of popular culture.
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door खेल car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird, and was spun into its own line in 1981, having been made लगातार since then.
The `` Maxima '' name was applied धीरे, शुरूआत in 1981.
Most pre-2004 maximas यहूद निर्मित in Oppama, Japan, until the current North American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
The `` Maxima '' has भी महरूम लागू to cefiros and Laurels in various markets.
propolis as hive sealing
Propolis is a resinous मिश्रण कि मधु मधुमक्खियों collect from tree buds, sap flows, or other botanical sources.
It is प्रयुक्त as a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the hive.
propolis is प्रयुक्त लिये छोटी गैप ( लगभग or less ), while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax.
Its color varies depending on its botanical सोर्स, the most common being dark brown.
Propolis is स्टिकी at और above room temperature,.
At lower temperatures, it becomes hard and very brittle.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26, 1948 ) is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the frontman और सीसे सिंगर of the Boston -based rock band Aerosmith, in which he also plays the harmonica, and occasional piano and percussion.
He is known as the `` राक्षस of screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range.
He is also known for उसके on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy performances, he usually dresses in उज्जवल, रंगीन outfits साथ उसके ट्रेडमार्क scarves hanging from his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ, which released such milestone hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Tyler had a heavy drug and alcohol व्यसन, और the band 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 years, but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the लेट 2000s, लिये जिससे he सफलतापूर्वक प्राप्त उपचार in 2009.
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent Vacation, Pump, and Get a Grip, टायलर became a household नाम और रै remained a प्रासंगिक rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music, film and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling किताब, और सोलो कार्य ( सहित a शीर्ष 40 hit single in 2011 ).
However, he has continued to record music and perform with Aerosmith, after more than 43 सालो in the बैंड.
The बैंड 's नवीनतम album, Music from Another Dimension !
, was released on नवम्बर 6, 2012.
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 महानतम Singers.
He was also ranked 3rd on hit parader 's शीर्ष 100 मेटल Vocalists of All Time.
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with Aerosmith, and he was the प्रस्तुतकर्ता जब ac/dc थी inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be recipients of the ASCAP संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और होगा भी be inducted into the songwriters Hall of Fame.
The liver produces यूरिया in the यूरिया cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein.
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
Individual laboratories may have different reference ranges, and this is because the procedure may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल coach and college and professional football player who was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 wins and 71 losses are each the most लिये a सिर कोच in team history.
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ), also known as the Jewish people, are a nation and an ethnoreligious समूह, originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East.
The Jewish ethnicity, nationality, and religion are strongly interrelated, as judaism is the traditional faith of the Jewish nation.
Converts to Judaism, whose status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it, have महरूम अवशोषित into the यहूदी लोगों throughout the millennia.
In Jewish tradition, Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs अब्राहम, इसहाक़ और याक़ूब in the दूसरी मिलेनियम BCE.
The modern राज्य of इसराईल थी स्थापित as a Jewish nation-state, and defines itself as such in its Basic Laws.
इसके विधि of वापसी grants the right of citizenship to any Jew who requests it.
Israel is the only country where Jews हैं a बहुमत of the population.
Jews also enjoyed राजनैतिक स्वायत्तता twice before in ancient history.
The first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE, and encompassed the periods of the Judges, the United Monarchy, and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of इसराईल और यहूदा, समाप्ति साथ the विनाश of the पहला टेम्पल.
The second was the period of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning इससे 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the destruction of the First टेम्पल, सबसे यहूदियों have lived in diaspora.
A minority in every country in which they live ( except Israel ), they have frequently experienced persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a जनसांख्यिकी कि रै fluctuated दोनो in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The world Jewish population reached a peak of 15 million prior to the Second World War, but six लाख यहूदियों यहूद मारे in the holocaust.
Since then the population has risen again and, was estimated at 13.4 लाख by the North American Jewish Data Bank, or less than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
According to this report, about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), and 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 लाख ), साथ सबसे of the शेष living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those who consider themselves यहूदियों, whether or नहीं वे हैं संबद्ध साथ a यहूदी organization.
The total world Jewish population, however, is मुश्किल to माप.
In addition to issues with census methodology, there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a Jew and secular, राजनैतिक, और ancestral पहचान कारकों that may affect the figure considerably.
Corpus Christi बारात.
Oil on canvas by Carl Emil doepler.
कॉर्पस Domini redirects here.
लिये अन्य उपयोग देखिए Corpus Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus christi ( लैटिन लिये देह of मसीह ), भी ज्ञात as कॉर्पस domini, is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist, which थी observed on पावन गुरुवार in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ.
It is also celebrated in some Anglican, Lutheran, and Old कैथोलिक चर्च कि थाम समान मान्यताओं regarding the Real Presence.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday or, `` where the Solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation, it is assigned to the Sunday बाद the सबसे पावन ट्रिनिटी as इसके उचित दिन ''.
At the end of Holy Mass, there is often a procession of the Blessed sacrament, generally प्रदर्शित in a monstrance.
The procession is followed by सुनाकर of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each year in Rome, where it begins at the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran और makes इसके रास्ता to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major, where it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood, the levels of which rise in response to सूजन ( i.e. c-reactive प्रोटीन is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of मुर्दे or मरना कोशिकाएं ( और कुछ प्रकार of जीवाणु ) in order to activate the complement system via the C1Q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a सदस्य of the pentraxin family of proteins.
It is not सम्बन्धित to C-peptide or protein C.
C-reactive protein was the first pattern मान्यता receptor ( prr ) to be identified.
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by क्रिस्टोफर कोलंबस sailed for India to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale खोजी और colonization soon followed.
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many internal wars and was slowly recovering from the many deaths कि the bubonic प्लेग caused, the रैपिड विस्तार at जिससे it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first expeditions occurred along the Caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola, प्यूर्टो रीको और क्यूबा, और बाद 1500 विस्तारित into the इंटीरियर्स of both North and South America.
In 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of England, John Cabot landed on the North American coast, and a साल बाद, कोलंबस 's तीसरा voyage पहुँचे the दक्षिण American coast.
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America, on a क्रमांक of caribbean आइलैंड्स, and in South America.
पुर्तगाल colonized Brazil.
Eventually, the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control of European governments, leading to profound changes to its landscape, जनसांख्यिकी, और संयंत्र और एनिमल life.
In the 19th century alone over 50 million people left यूरोपीय लिये the Americas.
the post-1492 era is known as the period of the Columbian Exchange.
कैथ रिचर्ड्स ( born 18 दिसम्बर 1943 ) is an English musician, singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones.
Rolling Stone magazine कहा रिचर्ड्स था निर्मित `` rock 's greatest single body of riffs '', ranking him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist Mick Jagger are सूचीबद्ध among रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence इससे हेरोइन.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is a स्टेरॉयड hormone from the androgen group and is found in mammals, reptiles, birds, and other vertebrates.
In mammals, testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the अंडाशय of महिलाओं, हालांकि छोटी amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the प्रिंसिपल पुरूष sex hormone and an anabolic steroid.
In men, testosterone plays a key role in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the testis and प्रोस्टेट as खूब as promoting द्वितीयक यौन विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased मांसपेशी, bone mass, and the growth of body hair.
In जोड, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य for health and well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis.
On average, in adult human males, the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the विशेषज्ञता in वयस्क इंसान महिलाओं ' प्लाज्मा, लकिन as the metabolic खपत of टेस्टोस्टेरोन in males is वृहद, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men.
Females also हैं अधिक संवेदनशील to the hormone.
Testosterone is observed in सबसे vertebrates.
मछली मेक a slightly different form called 11-ketotestosterone.
Its counterpart in insects is ecdysone.
These सर्वव्यापी steroids सुझाएँ कि sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique प्रयुक्त जब `` प्राकृतिक '' but relatively homogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population.
It is often used in विपणन शोध.
In this technique, the total population is divided into these समूह ( or क्लस्टर ) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected.
Then the required information is collected from a simple random sample of the elements भीतर प्रत्येक selected group.
This may be done for every element in these groups or a subsample of तत्व may be चयनित भीतर each of these groups.
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total number of साक्षात्कार और लागत दिए the desired सटीकता.
Assuming a fixed sample size, the technique देता अधिक सटीक परिणाम जब most of the variation in the population is within the groups, not between them.
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North Carolina, United States, और is a उपनगरीय of the आसपास शहरों of greensboro and High Point.
The population थी 3,382 at the 2010 census.
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an actress और मॉडल साथ डुअल अमरीकी and Israeli citizenship.
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film, but mainstream success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the स्टार युद्धों प्रीक्वेल त्रयी ( released in 1999, 2002 और 2005 ).
in 1999, she enrolled at Harvard University to study psychology while still working as an actress.
She completed उसके स्नातक 's degree in 2003.
In 2001, Portman खोली in नई यॉर्क नगर 's पब्लिक Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting Actress and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for Best अभिनेत्री for her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ).
She played leading roles in the ऐतिहासिक dramas गोया 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, वो परोसा as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स प्रतियोगिता in 2008.
पोर्टमैन निर्देशित a segment of the collective film New York, I Love You.
In 2011, Portman won the Academy Award, the Golden Globe पुरस्कार, the bafta पुरस्कार, the स्क्रीन Actors Guild Award, and the Independent Spirit Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan.
Copper is a chemical element with the प्रतीक cu ( इससे ) and atomic number 29.
It is a ductile मेटल साथ very high thermal and electrical conductivity.
Pure copper is soft and malleable ; a freshly उजागर सतह has a reddish-orange color.
it is used as a conductor of heat and electricity, a building material, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The metal and its alloys have been used for thousands of सालो.
In the Roman era, copper was principally mined on Cyprus, hence the origin of the name of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of साइप्रस ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds हैं commonly encountered as तांबे ( ii ) लवण, जिससे प्रायः impart blue or green colors to minerals such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built साथ तांबे corrode to give green verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently सुविधाएँ तांबे, both by itself and as part of pigments.
Copper is essential to all living जीवों as a ट्रेस dietary खनिज because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea तांबे is a constituent of the रक्त रंजक hemocyanin, which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
The main areas where तांबे is found in vertebrates are liver, muscle and bone.
In sufficient concentration, copper compounds are poisonous to higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, और wood preservatives.
The major professional खेल लीग, or simply major leagues, in the United States and Canada are the highest professional competitions of team sports in the two countries.
Although individual sports such as golf, tennis, and auto racing are also बहुत लोकप्रिय, the पद is usually limited to team sports.
The term `` major league '' was first used in 1921 in reference to Major League बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the शीर्ष स्तर of पेशेवर अमरीकी बेसबॉल.
Today, the major northern North America professional team sports लीग हैं प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the National Basketball Association ( NBA ), the National Football League ( NFL ), and the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable leagues शामिल प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( mls ), the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( cfl ), the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल लीग, Major League Lacrosse, the National Lacrosse League and the Women 's National Basketball Association.
The NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL हैं commonly referred to as the Big Four.
Each of these is the richest पेशेवर क्लबों competition in its sport worldwide.
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world, because the लीग आनंद a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada.
The NFL has 32 teams, and the अन्य have 30 प्रत्येक.
the विशाल बहुमत of प्रमुख लीग teams are concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States.
Baseball, football, हॉकी, और सॉकर have था पेशेवर लीग लिये over 100 सालो ; जल्दी leagues such as the National Association, Ohio League, and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB, NFL and NHL respectively.
Soccer was पहला professionalized in 1894, but leagues suffered greatly from lack of sustainability and seldom lasted more than a decade.
Soccer 's greatest successes were in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ), the original North American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and, currently, Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a अपेक्षाकृत नई विकास ; the एनबीए विकसित इससे the नेशनल बास्केट League and its splinter group the Basketball Association of America, taking on its current form in 1949.
Every major league averages 15,000 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति per game or higher as of 2011.
मध्याह्न ऊँचाई is an astronomical navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude.
अर्जित मान प्रबन्धन ( evm ), or अर्जित मान project/performance management ( EVPM ) is a project management technique for measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner.
Because EVM has the क्षमता to combine माप of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and cost,
in a single integrated प्रणाली, अर्जित Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance problems, which is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by its use ; and similarly, using the methodology improves both scope definition as well as the विश्लेषण of overall project performance.
More recent शोध अध्ययन have दिखाया that the principles of EVM are positive predictors of project success.
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond सरकारी contracting, in जिससे सेक्टर इसके महत्व continues to rise ( e.g., recent new DFAR rules ), in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes.
रंगीन वसन्त गार्डन flowers
Spring is one of the four conventional temperate seasons, following winter and preceding summer.
There are various technical परिभाषाएं of वसन्त, लकिन लोकल उपयोग of the पद varies according to local climate, cultures and customs.
When it is spring in the northern hemisphere, it होगा be पतझड़ in the southern hemisphere.
At the spring equinox, days are close to 12 hours long साथ दिन लंबाई increasing as the season progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and also to ideas of rebirth, कायाकल्प, नवीकरण, क़यामत, and regrowth, with festivals such as Carnival, Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown was a उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of Virginia, the first permanent English settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` जेम्स फोर्ट '' on may 14, 1607 ( o.s., May 24, 1607 N.S. ), it followed several earlier failed attempts, including the Lost Colony of Roanoke.
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony for 83 years, इससे 1616 until 1699.
The settlement was located within the territory of a राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah, the state of the Powhatan Confederacy, with around 14,000 native inhabitants, and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially सत्कार the colonists साथ नाचना, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists, who were not agriculturally inclined, although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on, leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the Virginia Company brought Polish and डच colonists to help improve the settlement.
In 1619, the पहला प्रलेखित africans यहूद brought to jamestown, हालांकि the modern conception of slavery in the future United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660.
When the colony was subdivided into the असली eight shires of Virginia in 1634, the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire.
The London Company 's second settlement, Bermuda, claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World, as St. George 's, Bermuda was officially established ( as नई लंदन ) in 1612, whereas जेम्स फोर्ट, in वर्जिनिया, थी नहीं to be परिवर्तित into James towne until 1619, and further did not survive into the present day.
In 1699, the capital was relocated from jamestown to कया is आज williamsburg, बाद जिससे jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a उपनिवेश, मौजूदा today only as an archaeological site.
Today, jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the Historic Triangle of Colonial Virginia, along with Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on Jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by Jamestown National Historic Site ( part of Colonial National ऐतिहासिक पार्क ), and Preservation Virginia.
The Jamestown Settlement, a जीना इतिहास interpretive site, is operated by the Jamestown Yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
जेम्स क्रिस्टोफर Frey ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an American writer.
His books A लाख छोटी टुकड़े ( 2003 ) and My Friend Leonard ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of certain injuries were exaggerated in A Million Little Pieces, a अधिकारीगण autobiographical खाता of the लेखक 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & Company, सबसे commonly ज्ञात by इसके नाम जॉन deere, is an अमरीकी corporation based in Moline, Illinois, and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world.
In 2012, it थी listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking.
Deere और कम्पनी agricultural उत्पाद, बेची अंतर्गत the जॉन deere नाम, include tractors, combine harvesters, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The कम्पनी is भी a निर्माता of निर्माण equipment and forestry equipment, as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment.
Additionally, John Deere manufactures equipment used in lawn, grounds, and turf care, such as walk-behind लॉन mowers, zero-turn लॉन mowers, lawn tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the कोर व्यवसायों, जॉन Deere also provides financial services and other related activities.
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a logo, a शब्द खेल pun on `` nothing runs like a deer ''.
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` nothing रनों Like a Deere '' for a marketing campaign to sell snowmobiles.
The company 's products are also identifiable by इसके distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by yellow trim.
The United States ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल issued U.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) who was not born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी प्रमाणपत्र ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर. )
All $ 10 बिल्स जारी today are Federal Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve बैंको in पीला straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy सैमुएल ग्रिफ़िथ ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television producer, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, and writer.
He थी a टोनी पुरस्कार nominee लिये दो भूमिकाएँ, और gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan 's film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became better known for his television roles, playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` terri '' इरविन, ( née raines ; born जुलाई 20, 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -based, American -born naturalist, author, the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with her husband on The मगरमच्छ शिकारी, उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ with its spin-off series, Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries.
She has lived in Australia चूंकि 1992, जब she married Steve Irwin.
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican system, इससे the harmonia macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the धरती और ग्रह revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System.
The word आता इससे the यूनानी ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, which placed the धरती at the center.
The notion that the Earth revolves around the सूर्य था महरूम प्रस्तावित as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos, but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that इस is a भ्रामक छाप resulting from the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues that a heliocentric view was expounded in हिप्पारकस 's कार्य on gravity.
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive mathematical model of a heliocentric system was presented, by the पुनर्जागरण गणितज्ञ, astronomer, और कैथोलिक मौलवी nicolaus कोपरनिकस of कैंडल, अग्रणी to the copernican Revolution.
In the following century, योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated upon और विस्तारित this model to include elliptical orbits, and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of William Herschel, Friedrich Bessel, and others, astronomers realized that the sun was not the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड और by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions.
नोराह जोन्स ( born geetali नोराह Jones Shankar ; March 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
वो is the बेटी of Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar and Sue Jones.
वो is भी anoushka Shankar 's half-sister.
In 2002, वो शुभारम्भ उसके सोलो म्यूज़िक करियर साथ the रिलीज of the commercially successful and critically acclaimed album Come Away with Me, a fusion of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million copies.
The record earned Jones five ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित the Album of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best New Artist.
Her subsequent studio albums, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, Not Too Late, released in 2007, the same year she made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights, and her 2009 release The Fall all gained प्लेटिनम औकात, selling over a लाख नक़ल और यहूद generally well received by critics.
Jones ' fifth studio album, छोटी टूटा Hearts, was released on April 27, 2012.
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th on Billboard magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009 दशक चार्ट.
Throughout her career, जोन्स रै जीती numerous awards and has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide.
Billboard named her the top jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be उलझन with Dimension of a physical quantity.
For अन्य उपयोग, see Dimension ( disambiguation ).
From left to right, the वर्गाकार, the घन, and the tesseract.
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional lines, the cube by 2-dimensional areas, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A projection of the घन is दिए चूंकि it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, which additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a projection even in three-dimensional space.
A diagram showing the पहला चार स्थानिक आयाम.
In भौतिकी और गणित, the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it.
Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one coordinate is needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a point on it ( लिये example, to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ).
The inside of a घन, a बेलन or a गोला is three-dimensional because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and इसके स्थिति in समय ( आभास as a अदिश आयाम साथ the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions, interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट or structure in its attitude and relationship to other objects and occurrences.
Physical theories that incorporate time, such as general आपेक्षिकता, हैं कहा to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum field and string theories.
The state-space of क्वांटम यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The concept of dimension is not restricted to शारीरिक वस्तुएँ.
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons, अक्सर as विन्यास स्पेसेस ऐसे as in लाग्रांजीय or Hamiltonian mechanics ; these are abstract spaces, independent of the physical space we live in.
Fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 residents in San Bernardino काउंटी, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially rural until World War II, when उद्योगों हेनरी J. कैसर निर्मित a विशाल स्टील मिल in the area.
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry, with Interstate 10 and State Route 210 transecting the नगर इससे ईस्ट to वेस्ट, और अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system libraries, a renovated ऐतिहासिक थिएटर, a नगरपालिका पार्क, और the स्वचालित क्लबों स्पीडवे on the साईट of the Kaiser Steel Mill.
Fontana also hosts the fontana दिनों हाफ Marathon and 5K run.
इस रेस is the तीव्रतम half-marathon कोर्स in the संसार.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012, making it the second सबसे populous नगर in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state.
Cowboys स्टेडियम is a स्टेडियम साथ a retractable roof in Arlington, Texas.
It serves as the home of the National Football League 's डलास Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, which opened in 1971, and served as the cowboys ' घर through the 2008 season.
It थी समाप्त on May 27, 2009.
The stadium seats 85,000, making it the तीसरा largest स्टेडियम in the NFL by seating capacity.
the अधिकतम क्षमता of the stadium, including standing room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in each end zone and on a series of छह elevated प्लेटफ़ॉर्म कनेक्ट by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free interior and the fourth largest high definition video screen, जिससे hangs इससे 20 yard line to 20 yard line.
The facility can also be used for a किस्में of अन्य क्रियाएँ बाहर of इसके main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts, basketball games, boxing matches, college football and high school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
Canadian historians until the 1980s tended to फ़ोकस on आर्थिक इतिहास, सहित labour history.
In part this is क्युकी कनाडा रै था दूर कम political or military conflicts than other societies.
This was especially true in the first half of the twentieth century when economic इतिहास थी overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this period were economic historians, such as हेरोल्ड innis, डोनाल्ड creighton और आर्थर R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe and the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन frameworks that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada.
The heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे आर्थिक history that dominates Europe has little relevance to most of Canadian history.
A focus on class, urban areas, and industry fails to address कनाडा 's ग्रामीण और संसाधन आधारित अर्थव्यवस्था.
similarly, the monetarist school that is dominant in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border.
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic भूगोल, और लिये अनेक सालो the dominant school of thought has been the staples thesis.
This school of thought bases the पढ़ाई of the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था on the study of natural resources.
This दृष्टिकोण रै चूंकि भी become used outside of Canada in Australia and in many developing nations.
Before the arrival of europeans, the First Nations of what would become Canada had a large and vibrant trade network.
Furs, tools, decorative items, और अन्य goods यहूद प्रायः transported thousands of kilometres, mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region.
The early European history of the Canadian economy is प्रायः पढ़ाई through the स्टेपल्स thesis which argues the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive isotope of कार्बन साथ a केंद्रक containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in organic सामग्री is the आधार of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by Willard Libby and colleagues ( 1949 ) to date archaeological, geological and hydrogeological samples.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by मार्टिन कामेन और sam Ruben at the University of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley, although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934.
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts, i.e., बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग प्रति खरब ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through बीटा क्षय.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on धरती is cosmic ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
however, open-air नाभिकीय testing between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
the अलग isotopes of carbon do not differ appreciably in their chemical properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive carbon, in order to trace chemical and biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन अणु इससे कोई दिए सशुल्क यौगिक.
Lightning is a highly दृश्य रूप of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a विशाल scale between the atmosphere and an earth-bound object.
They mostly originate in thunderclouds and terminate on the मैदान, called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning.
However, they may also be initiated from a very tall grounded object and reach into the clouds.
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning, it is rather erroneous and a misnomer, as only about 25 % of सब बिजली कार्यक्रम विश्वव्यापी हैं cg, the विशाल बल्क of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ), where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere.
The scientific name for the complete process of a single lightning event is a and it is a very complex, अनेक stepped बातचीत, which is not completely understood.
Most CG flashes only `` strike '' one physical location, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the bright coursing लाइट तुम may देखिए और कॉल a `` स्ट्राइक '', is only about 1 inch in diameter, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of मील.
And the entire flash, lasts only a few fractions of a second, most of जिससे is नहीं दृश्य to इंसान आँखें.
Thunder is सदा उत्पादित by lightning.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it really is, the earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the बाहर संसार, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
Lightning can not happen in a वैक्यूम विहीन of ions, nor can thunder occur without molecules to vibrate.
Thunder is a शारीरिक निरपेक्ष लिये every single flash of lightning.
contrary to लोकप्रिय विश्वास, a बिजली स्ट्राइक itself is usually not responsible for multiple deaths or injuries from a single event.
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a flash, unless people or animals were stacked on top of each other, or they were somehow arranged खड़ा और भाग of the फ्लैश चैनल.
When lightning ignites an available fuel source and an explosion occurs, it is the शॉक वेव or आग causing the चोटों, not the strike itself.
Ground Currents, also called step potential, of an धरती termination is what truly causes most injuries or death to humans and animals.
The निकट instantaneous rush of surface charges, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, race to the strike point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge.
This current, caused during each stroke, takes the path of least प्रतिरोध, जिससे may be आयन समृद्ध इंसान or animal legs, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is बेहतरीन to crouch, साथ फीट close together, if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm.
दुर्भाग्यवश, सबसे रिपोर्ट्स do नहीं चित्रण a distinction between the real cause of injury or death, be it the strike itself, a resulting explosion or fire, or usually responsible step potential.
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current attorney सामान्य of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is भी a रिटायर्ड पुलिस कप्तान and a former member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives.
A couple following their marriage in the manti यूटा Temple.
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in Latter Day Saints temples by a व्यक्ति पकड़कर the sealing प्राधिकार.
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar संबंध, बनाना संभावित the existence of family relationships throughout eternity.
lds शिक्षाओं प्लेस ग्रेट importance on the specific authority required to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine teaches that इस प्राधिकार, पुकारा the Priesthood, corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in.
sealings हैं typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents.
वे यहूद performed prior to the मौत of जोसेफ Smith, Jr. ( the main founder of the Latter Day Saint movement ), and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, ऐसे as the Community of Christ, view sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of plural marriage, some do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', was a decade that began on जनवरी 1, 2000, and ended on December 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated after the early 1990s fall of communism, जारी to be a force in the 2000s.
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization दौरान the दशक, बनाना it संभावित लिये लोगों to interact with other people, express ideas, introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds, use goods and services, sell and buy online, research and learn about things, along with experiencing the world without having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies that emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in this दशक लाभ अनेक देशों, in particular China and India.
However, in other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing struggles with modernity, most notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups.
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States, United किंगडम, स्पेन, कनाडा और अन्य राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान, as खूब as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror.
The यूरोपीय Union saw further integration and expansion throughout much of Europe.
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable पर्यावरणीय consequences, उठाया माँग लिये घटाते उर्जा संसाधन, और थी still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was a gunfight that took place at about 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, अक्तूबर 26, 1881, in tombstone, Arizona Territory, and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी परिचय तीस सेकेंड, थी लड़ा between the outlaw Cowboys Billy Claiborne, Ike and Billy Clanton, and Tom and Frank McLaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne ran from the fight unharmed, but Ike 's brother बिली clanton थी मारे, साथ साथ both McLaurys.
Lawmen वर्जिल और मॉर्गन earp and Doc Holliday were wounded.
Only Wyatt Earp came through the लड़ो unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when the frontier was open range for outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन कि was spread thin over vast territories, leaving some areas unprotected.
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since महरूम संकल्पित to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी, व्याट earp : frontier मार्शल, दो सालो after Earp 's death.
Lake retold his story in a 1946 किताब कि निदेशक John Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the movie Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was released in 1957, the गोलीबारी आए to be ज्ञात by that name.
Since then, the conflict has been portrayed साथ varying डिग्री of सटीकता in numerous Western films and books.
despite इसके नाम, the gunfight दरअसल occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the rear entrance to the O.K. Corral on Fremont Street, and also in the street.
The two opposing parties were initially तभी about apart.
About thirty shots were fired in तीस seconds.
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday but they were eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day preliminary सुनना और तब again by a लोकल ग्रैंड jury.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw Cowboys, and on March 18, 1882, वे assassinated मॉर्गन earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, and newly appointed डिप्टी u.s. मार्शल व्याट earp took matters into उसके अपना हैंड्स दौरान the earp वेंडेट्टा सवारी, ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video आंकड़ा और compressed/uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो आंकड़ा इससे a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the सोर्स device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor, video projector, digital television, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a digital replacement for मौजूदा एनालॉग वीडियो standards.
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available, each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format, including standard, enhanced, high definition, and 3D video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital ऑडियो ; a cec ( उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कंट्रोल ) कनेक्शन ; और an ईथरनेट आंकड़ा कनेक्शन.
HDMI implements the eia/cea-861 मानकों, जिससे define वीडियो स्वरुप and waveforms, transport of compressed, uncompressed, and LPCM audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA EDID.
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each other when necessary and allows the उपयोक्ता to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset.
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual interface ( DVI ), no signal conversion is necessary, nor is वहीँ a घाटा of वीडियो विशेषता जब a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used.
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, HDMI is independent of the various digital television standards used by individual devices, such as ATSC and dvb, as ये हैं encapsulations of संपीडित एमपीईजी वीडियो स्ट्रीम ( जिससे can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
उत्पादन of consumer HDMI products started in late 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the hd तैयार in-store labeling specification लिये TV sets for HDTV, formulated by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders और डिजिटल still cameras in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the release of the first HDMI specification, over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped चूंकि the लॉन्च of the hdmi मानक.
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the चार protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives.
She is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has received अनेक पुरस्कार और nominations लिये उसके portrayal, सहित an एमी पुरस्कार nomination, three Golden Globe Award nominations, and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of ब्री has been widely praised by critics and fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young, लकिन श्रेणी निर्माता मार्क चेरी विचार वो थी better suited for the role of Bree.
Dana Delany, जो आखिरकार थी डाल as कैथरीन Mayfair, was originally chosen for the role but turned it down, saying it was too similar to her role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various बाधाएं ऐसे as widowhood, तलाक, और alcoholism hindering her.
She has been married three times ; to Rex Van de Kamp ( Steven Culp ), Orson Hodge ( काइल maclachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See also the Town of Algoma in winnebago काउंटी, Wisconsin.
देखिए भी Algoma ( Disambiguation ).
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee County in the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,167 at the 2010 census.
Algoma is भाग of the ग्रीन Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The Hangover Part ii is a 2011 अमरीकी कॉमेडी film produced by Legendary Pictures and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures.
It is the sequel to 2009 's The Hangover और the दूसरी फिल्मी in the hangover franchise.
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट with Craig Mazin, and Scot Armstrong.
The film stars ब्राडली कूपर, ed helms, zach galifianakis, Ken Jeong, Jeffrey Tambor, Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil, Stu, Alan, और डग as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's wedding.
After the bachelor party in लास वेगास, stu takes no chances and opts for a safe, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as planned, resulting in another bad hangover with no यादें of the पिछला night.
Development of The hangover भाग ii began in April 2009, two months before The Hangover was released.
The प्रिंसिपल अभिनेताओं यहूद cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles from the first film.
Production began in अक्तूबर 2010, in ओंटारियो, California, before moving on location in Thailand.
The film was released on May 26, 2011 and, despite receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run.
A third फिल्मी is नियत for on May 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, पोर्ट्रेट miniature by Nicholas Hilliard, 1588, V & A.
Believed to be the Earl of Essex
The ditchley पोर्ट्रेट of Elizabeth I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the Younger, c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic गति in इंग्लैण्ड डेटिंग इससे the लेट 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century.
It is associated with the pan-European Renaissance that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the लेट 14th सदी.
Like most of northern Europe, इंग्लैण्ड देखी छोटी of ये developments until more than a century later.
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, जब the बैटल of bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the Wars of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty.
Renaissance style and ideas, however, were slow in penetrating England, and the Elizabethan era in the दूसरी हाफ of the 16th सदी is प्रायः regarded as the height of the English Renaissance.
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( April 8, 1918 – जुलाई 8, 2011 ), थी पहला महिला of the United States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford.
As First Lady, she was active in सोशल नीति और created precedents as a politically active presidential wife.
Throughout her husband 's term in office, she maintained ऊँची स्वीकृति दरजा despite विपक्ष from some conservative Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues.
Ford was विख्यात लिये उठाने स्तन कर्कट जागरूकता following उसके 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter of, and activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement, she gained fame as एक of the सबसे निष्कपट पहला महिलाओं in इतिहास, commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button समस्या of the time, including feminism, equal pay, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
वो भी उठाया जागरूकता of addiction when she announced her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House years, she continued to lobby for the ERA and remained क्रियाशील in the feminist movement.
She was the founder, and served as the first chair of the फलक of निर्देशकों, of the बेट्टी घाट बीच लिये पदार्थ गाली और addiction and is a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( cd31 ) is a प्रोटीन कि in इंसान is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a key role in removing aged neutrophils इससे the देह.
जेसिका rafalowski, Miss Florida USA 2008
Jenna Edwards, Miss फ्लोरिडा USA 2007
Melissa Witek, Miss Florida यूएसए 2005
Kristen Berset, Miss Florida यूएसए 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the representative for the state Florida in the Miss USA pageant.
While Florida has been कामयाब in शर्तें of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the state has never won the Miss USA pageant, although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
Florida 's best results were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was lissette गार्सिया जो लगाई in the top 16 in 2011.
Two former Miss Florida टीन यूएसए titleholders have जीती this competition, and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America.
The current titleholder is मिशेल aguirre of Hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the काल of the इतिहास of the भाग of ब्रिटेन that became known as England, lasting from the end of Roman occupation and establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th सदियां, सहित Angles, Saxons, Frisii, and Jutes.
The term also refers to the भाषा बोला at the समय in इंग्लैण्ड, जिससे is अभी पुकारा बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी, और to the संस्कृति of the era, which has long attracted popular and scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of नॉर्थम्ब्रिया, mercia, ईस्ट anglia, एसेक्स, Kent, Sussex, and Wessex.
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed anglo-saxon paganism दौरान the जल्दी period, but converted to Christianity during the 7th century.
paganism था a फाइनल stronghold in a काल of Mercian hegemony during the 640s, ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of viking invasions, the House of Wessex became dominant during the 9th century, under the rule of Alfred the Great.
During the 10th century, the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड, जिससे stood opposed to the danelaw, the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the viking आक्रमण इससे डेनमार्क in 1013 और थी ruled by the House of Denmark until 1042, when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored.
the last Anglo-Saxon king, Harold Godwinson, was killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
Lighting a traditional red brick जॉन रॉस jr kiln
Smoked सामन is a तैयारी of salmon, typically a fillet that has been cured and hot or cold smoked.
Due to इसके मध्यम ऊँची दाम, smoked salmon is considered a delicacy.
Although the term lox is sometimes applied to smoked सामन, वे हैं अलग उत्पाद.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति and placement.
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, और pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur चैनल ( अगस्त 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) was a French fashion designer and founder of the Chanel brand.
She was the तभी फ़ैशन designer to appear on Time magazine 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
Along with Paul Poiret, Chanel was credited with liberating women from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, कैज़ुअल चिक as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era.
A prolific फ़ैशन निर्माता, चैनल 's influence extended beyond couture clothing.
Her design aesthetic थी एहसास in jewelry, handbags, and fragrance.
उसके हस्ताक्षर scent, Chanel No. 5, has become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, महत्वाकांक्षा और energy which she applied to her professional and social life.
She achieved दोनो कामयाबी as a businesswoman and social prominence thanks to the connections she made through her work.
These included many artists and craftspeople to जिसको she became a patron.
However, Chanel 's अत्यधिक प्रतिस्पर्धी, opportunistic व्यक्तित्व led उसके to मेक questionable life choices which have generated controversy around her reputation, particularly her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II.
Allied Mills flour mill on the बैंको of the मैनचेस्टर Ship Canal
A gristmill ( भी : grist mill, corn mill or flour mill ) grinds grain into flour.
The term can refer to both the पीस mechanism and the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located at the intersection of सेंट्रल और southeastern यूरोपीय, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the वेस्ट, युक्त और moldova to the northeast and east, and Bulgaria to the south.
At, Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area, and रै the सातवाँ largest population of the European Union with more than 19 million people.
Its capital and biggest city is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest city in the EU.
The United principalities उभरा जब the territories of Moldavia and Wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in 1881 he was finally crowned as King Carol I the पहला monarch of the किंगडम of Romania.
Independence इससे the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May 1877, and was internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of World War I, Transylvania, Bukovina and Bessarabia संयुक्त साथ the किंगडम of Romania.
World War II gave cause to the वृद्धि of a सैन्य तानाशाही in रोमानिया अंतर्गत फासिस्ट General Ion Antonescu, who chose to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944.
After his removal, Romania switched sides in 1944 और joined the allies.
By the end of the war, some formerly Romanian northeastern territories यहूद occupied by the सोवियत संघ, with Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a लोगों 's गणतंत्र ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact.
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General सचिव of the रोमानियाई कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी, और the हर्ष austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक दमन, और cult of व्यक्तित्व he implemented led to the समाजवादी Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually his authoritarian government was toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान the Romanian Revolution of 1989.
With the fall of the आयरन पर्दा, रोमानिया began its transition towards democracy and a capitalist market economy.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards मनाही, extensive reforms fostered आर्थिक रिकवरी.
As of 2010, Romania is an upper-middle-income country with a high human development अनुक्रमणिका.
रोमानिया joined नाटो on 29 March 2004, and the European Union on 1 January 2007.
It is also a member of the : लैटिन संघ, francophonie, OSCE, WTO, BSEC, United Nations, etc.
Today, Romania is a unitary semi-presidential गणतंत्र, in जिससे the executive branch consists of the President and the Government.
`` Ancient '' redirects यहाँ.
लिये अन्य uses, see Antiquity ( disambiguation ).
The times before लिखने belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
Khafre 's पिरामिड ( 4th dynasty ) and Great Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written past from the beginning of अंकित इंसान इतिहास to the जल्दी मध्य Ages.
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, with Cuneiform script, the oldest discovered form of coherent writing, from the protoliterate period around the 30th सदी BC.
This is the beginning of इतिहास, as opposed to प्रागितिहास, according to the definition used by most historians.
The term classical antiquity is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to history in the Old World from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides साथ the परंपरागत date of the founding of Rome in 753 BC, the beginning of the history of ancient Rome, and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece.
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed, some Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD, the closure of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD, the death of the emperor Justinian I, the coming of Islam or the rise of शारलेमेन as the समाप्त of प्राचीन और शास्त्रीय यूरोपीय इतिहास.
In India, the period includes the जल्दी काल of the मध्य kingdoms, और, in चीन, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of विटामिन B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12, occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the दिमाग and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the eight B विटामिन.
It is सामान्यतः शामिल in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, पौधे, nor पशु हैं capable of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the एंजाइमों जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण, although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest और सबसे structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a क्लास of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन परिवर्तन between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the साइनाइड, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The extra utility of ये is फिलहाल debated.
Vitamin B12 was खोजा इससे इसके संबंध to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic फ़ैक्टर is निर्णायक लिये the सामान्य absorption of B12, so a lack of intrinsic factor, as seen in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical प्रभाव have चूंकि महरूम elucidated.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an autocratic form of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, था महरूम destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 bc ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana ( `` रोमन सलाम '' ).
It reached its महानतम expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence, but थी reunified और stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th century, during which समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी विकसित in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th सदी, the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed, विशेषकर यूरोपीय, और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total देह सतह क्षेत्रफल ( tbsa ) is an assessment measure of burns of the skin.
In adults, the `` rule of nines '' is used to determine the total प्रतिशत of क्षेत्रफल burned लिये प्रत्येक प्रमुख section of the body.
In some cases, the burns may cover more than one body part, or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns हैं measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body.
For children and infants, the lund-browder चार्ट is प्रयुक्त to assess the burned body surface area.
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the combined सतह क्षेत्रफल of the सिर और गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult.
Typical मान लिये आम groups of humans follow.
( due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant mortality rates by पाँच सालो averages in 2008.
This is a list of देशों by शिशु mortality rate.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), better known by his stage name kj-52, is a ईसाई rapper इससे tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap alias, `` King J. Mac, '' a name which he later वर्णित in एक of उसके podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish, which is भी सुंग परिचय in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook और in the `` kj पाँच दो '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two.
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for `` Never Look Away '' और rap/hip हॉप एल्बम of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '', which is the first single for his album five-two Television.
His song `` Dear Slim '' is based on Eminem 's song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message इससे kj-52 to एमिनेम.
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used, among other things, to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g. in भौगोलिक निर्देशांक प्रणालियों ), hours ( in the medical field ), or degrees of temperature.
The प्रतीक consists of a छोटी उठाया circle, historically a zero glyph.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
This is a list of roots, suffixes, और prefixes प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा शब्दावली, their meanings, and their etymology.
There are a few rules when using चिकित्सा जड़ें.
firstly, prefixes और प्रत्यय, primarily in Greek, but also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
As a general rule, this -o- लगभग सदा अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, instead of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go together according to language : Greek prefixes go with यूनानी प्रत्यय और लैटिन prefixes साथ Latin suffixes.
Although international scientific vocabulary is नहीं कठोर about segregating combining forms of different languages, it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots.
Stomach cancer, or gastric cancer, refers to cancer arising from any part of the पेट.
Stomach cancer causes परिचय 800,000 मौतों worldwide per year.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) because most मरीजों उपस्थित साथ उन्नत बीमारी.
Sara Lynn Evans ( born February 5, 1971 ) is an American देश सिंगर and songwriter.
For her संपूर्ण करियर, she has been signed to RCA Records Nashville.
इवांस ' डेब्यू, तीन मदारी और the Truth, did not produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts.
She followed इस up साथ no प्लेस कि दूर ( 1998 ), Born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( RIAA ), while the other three albums all were certified platinum.
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far ``, `` Born to Fly ``, `` Suds in the Bucket `` and `` A Real Fine Place to प्रारंभ ``, प्लस the शीर्ष 10 हिट्स `` i could नहीं पूछो लिये अधिक `` ( a कवर of the एडविन मैक्केन song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 महानतम Hits included the top 15 hits `` You 'll Always Be My Baby `` and `` As If ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit, `` A Little Bit Stronger ``, जिससे थी co-written by हिलेरी स्कॉट of महिला Antebellum.
Evans has भी जीती एक पुरस्कार प्रत्येक इससे बिलबोर्ड, the Academy of Country Music, Country Music Association, Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award.
The world 's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be classified into a small number of major groups, although this is by no अर्थात् a वर्दी अभ्यास.
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the सापेक्ष स्तर of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a C-54 जमीन at tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the first major अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the Cold War.
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II जर्मनी, the सोवियत संघ अवरोधित the Western Allies ' railway, road, and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control.
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying बर्लिन साथ खाना और ईंधन, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In response, the Western Allies organized the Berlin एयरलिफ्ट to carry आपूर्तियाँ to the लोगों in West Berlin.
Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the British Royal Air Force, the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Canadian Air Force, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000 flights in one year, providing up to 4700 टन of रोज़ necessities ऐसे as fuel and food to the Berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the effort थी clearly succeeding और, by April, the airlift was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail.
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought शर्मिंदगी to the soviets जो था refused to believe it could make a difference.
The blockade थी lifted in May 1949 and resulted in the creation of two separate German states.
The संघीय गणतंत्र of जर्मनी ( वेस्ट जर्मनी ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin.
In remembrance of the airlift, three airports in the former western zones of the नगर परोसा as the primary gateways to Germany for another fifty years.
The euro sign ; logotype और हस्तलिखित.
The euro चिह्न is the करेंसी चिह्न प्रयुक्त लिये the euro, the official currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ).
The डिज़ाइन थी प्रस्तुत to the public by the European Commission on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter code ( according to आईएसओ मानक ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
In English, the चिह्न precedes the value.
In some styleguides, but not others, the euro sign is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a traditional South American infused drink, विशेषकर in अर्जेंटीना, उरुग्वे, पैराग्वे और the दक्षिणी राज्य of ब्राज़ील और to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, Syria and Lebanon.
It is prepared इससे steeping सूखी leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water.
Mate is परोसा साथ a मेटल स्ट्रॉ from a shared hollow calabash gourd.
The straw is पुकारा a bombilla in कुछ लैटिन अमरीकी countries, a bomba in Portuguese, and a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic.
The स्ट्रॉ is traditionally made of silver.
Modern, commercially available straws are typically made of nickel silver, called Alpaca ; stainless स्टील, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; जबकि in ब्राज़ील, it रै the विशिष्ट नाम of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the name for Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in other regions of Brazil, still used for general food and drink in remote regions ).
Even if the water is supplied from a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally नशे इससे mates or cuias.
as साथ अन्य brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are dried, chopped, and ground into a powdery mixture called yerba.
The bombilla अधिनियमों as both a straw and a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, साथ छोटी छेद or slots that allow the brewed liquid in, but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture.
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube with holes, or वसन्त sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in अर्जेंटीना, पैराग्वे और उरुग्वे for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''.
इस is माना a completely different drink.
It is never drunk from cuias or called chimarrão, nor is it संबद्ध with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the डिज़ाइन, विकास, manufacture, marketing, and selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds.
It is one of the world 's सबसे important economic sectors by revenue.
The term automotive उद्योग प्रायः करता नहीं शामिल उद्योग dedicated to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery to the end-user, such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations.
The term automotive was created इससे यूनानी autos ( स्वः ), और लैटिन motivus ( of motion ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle.
This term was proposed by SAE सदस्य एल्मर स्पेरी.
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista, Jr. ( born January 18, 1969 ), is an American mixed martial artist, bodybuilder, actor, and former professional wrestler best known लिये उसके समय in संसार कुश्ती entertainment competing under the ring name Batista.
In WWE, he became a six-time संसार चैंपियन, जीतना the World Heavyweight Championship four times, and the WWE Championship two times.
He is the longest-reigning World Heavyweight चैंपियन in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इतिहास.
In addition to these championships, Batista has won the World Tag Team Championship three times ( twice with Ric Flair and once with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ).
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline WrestleMania 21, एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant, Batista signed a अनुबंध साथ the wwf in 2000 और थी भेजा to इसके developmental territory, Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ), where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship.
In August 2012, bautista हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध with Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts.
He won his MMA debut on October 6, 2012, defeating Vince lucero via tko in the पहला गोलाकार.
हेनरी T. थामस sampson, jr. ( born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor.
he ग्रैजुएट from high school in 1951 from Lanier High School in Jackson, Mississippi.
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before transferring to Purdue University where he became a member of the Omega Psi Phi बिरादरी.
He received a Bachelor 's degree in विज्ञान इससे purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in 1956.
He graduated with an MS degree in engineering from the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स in 1961.
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear Engineering from the University of Illinois urbana-champaign in 1965, और उसके phd in 1967.
He is the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in the United States.
Some of his accomplishments include being a member of the United राज्य नेवी between the सालो 1962 और 1964 and earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967.
Later he was awarded the Black Image Award इससे aerospace निगम in 1982.
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied Science Award, and prize for शिक्षा, by the लॉस एंजिल्स परिषद of ब्लैक पेशेवर Engineers in 1983.
In June 2007, Sampson was married to Laura Howzell Young in St. Thomas, u.S. वर्जिन आइलैंड्स.
Young-Sampson is a प्राध्यापक in the कॉलेज of शिक्षा at California State University San Bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ campaign adviser for US President Barack Obama.
previously, he was the 28th White House Press Secretary.
गिब्स थी the संचार निदेशक for then- U.S. Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, who has worked with Obama since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in सीनेट अभियान, having परोसा as संचार निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial Campaign Committee and for four individual Senate campaigns, including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was also the press secretary of Representative bob etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, Gibbs थी घोषित as the दबायें सचिव of the Obama administration.
He assumed the role of press secretary on जनवरी 20, 2009, and gave his first official briefing on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, Gibbs announced that he would leave the White House to become an outside adviser to the प्रशासन.
he बाएँ on February 11, 2011.
On February 12, 2013, it थी घोषित that Gibbs had been hired as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC.
His पहला रूप थी on the same night prior to the 2013 State Of The Union Address.
Armando Pérez ( born जनवरी 15, 1981 ), better known by his stage name Pitbull, is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
His first recorded performance थी इससे the लील Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut album titled m.i.a.m.i. ( छोटी लिये धन is a प्रमुख Issue ) under TVT Records.
Since then, he रै released तीन अन्य एल्बम अंतर्गत the label : El Mariel in 2006, The Boatlift in 2007, and Planet Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, जिससे शामिल singles `` i जान You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the Hot 100 and No. 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts जबकि `` i जान तुम want me '' peaked at no. 2 on the hot 100 and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK, Canada, Italy, and the Netherlands.
The song reached No. 1 in France and the European Hot 100 on the week समाप्ति अगस्त 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He later signed with Polo Grounds Music through सोनी म्यूज़िक और निर्मित his own label Mr. 305 Inc.
Another single इससे rebelution थी `` होटल रूम Service ``, which peaked at No. 8 on the Hot 100.
Rebelution गई on to बेचें over 7.5 million worldwide digital singles and albums combined.
Nevertheless, he dropped a smash called `` दे me सबकुछ '' जिससे reached # 1 worldwide, and featured artists Ne-yo, Nayer, and Afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs, like Tik Tok, Scream & Shout, Lo Hecho Esta Hecho, ख़राब, papi, ईंट, कैसा कम, tonight ( i 'm lovin ' तुम ), वीडियो फोन, over to तुम अभी और Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the host of his own Spanish-language program on the cable channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( स्पेनी लिये the कोने ).
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad लड़के लातीनी, a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on Latin hip हॉप, लैटिन आत्मा, लैटिन पॉप और अन्य तीव्र music, and has offices in New York and Miami, Florida.
Along with co-founding it, Pérez currently heads the A & r प्रभाग of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside Drake, Rihanna, and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink giant Dr Pepper as part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on उसके एल्बम अरमांडो.
Pitbull also announced he has become the प्रवक्ता लिये voli वोदका, in जिससे he holds a बहुमत equity stake, and Budweiser has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer.
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing और gyrating on स्टेज पकड़कर up a bottle of Bud Light.
Pitbull has also purchased an equity हिस्सेदारी in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), also known as All Hallows ' Eve, is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ संभावित pagan जड़ें, विशेषकर the सेल्टिक Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of samhain और has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling डरावने कहानियां, और watching हॉरर films.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's राय और विचार using एक 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them.
The term स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting ethnic hatred ), कापीराइट उल्लंघन, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to थाम राय बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these अधिकारों carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
Sydney Harbour from the air, showing the Opera House, the CBD, गोलाकार Quay, the Bridge, the Parramatta River, North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries रेल, vehicular, सायकिल और पैदल ट्रैफ़िक between the सिडनी central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore.
The dramatic view of the bridge, the harbour, and the nearby Sydney Opera House is an iconic चित्र of सिडनी, नई दक्षिण वेल्स, और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
the सेतु is nicknamed `` The Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design.
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C. Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works, the सेतु थी designed और निर्मित by British firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932.
The bridge 's design was बहकावे by the Hell Gate Bridge in New York.
It was the world 's widest long-span सेतु, at 48.8 मीटर ( 160 feet ) wide, until construction of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, and it is the tallest steel arch bridge, measuring इससे शीर्ष to water level.
Until 1967 the harbour सेतु थी Sydney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake हवाई Islands, in the northern Pacific Ocean.
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world, the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain, an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes, four of which are active, two of which are dormant, and more than 123 of which are extinct, many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts और atolls.
The chain extends from south of the island of Hawaii to the edge of the aleutian गर्त, निकट the eastern edge of Russia.
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries, the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory, first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo Wilson, proposes that a single, fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then, cut बंद इससे उनके सोर्स by the गति of the प्रशांत थाली, become increasingly निष्क्रिय and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years.
According to this theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and Hawaiian segments of the कड़ी थी caused by a अचानक शिफ़्ट in the movement of the Pacific Plate.
In 2003, fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot सिद्धान्त, suggesting कि हॉटस्पॉट हैं मोबाईल, नहीं फिक्स्ड, और कि the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing आयु और weathered राज्य of the ज्वालामुखी to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes और उनके constant battle with the sea was a major element in Hawaiian mythology, embodied in Pele, the deity of volcanoes.
After the arrival of Europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed the first formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics, confirming the संबंध long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar, initiating continuous scientific observation of the islands.
In the 1970s, a mapping project was initiated to लाभ अधिक information about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged, showing it to be wide and up to deep, and olivine और गार्नेट -आधारd अध्ययन have दिखाया its magma chamber is approximately.
In इसके at तनिक 85 लाख सालो of activity the hotspot has produced an estimated of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time, causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease, from 18 million years for the 76 million year old Detroit Seamount, to बस अंतर्गत 900,000 लिये the एक लाख year-old kohala ; on the other hand, eruptive volume has increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes on the near side of the हॉटस्पॉट ओवरलैप प्रत्येक अन्य ( forming ऐसे superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient Maui Nui ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
David Palmer, director of the show, घोषित that the season 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are होने हस्ताक्षरित to bring the show for a fifth season.
The show airs on Treehouse TV Canada और उपनाम jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay लिखा by the निदेशक and Arlene Davidson, based on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
It थी marketed साथ the tagline `` Rebel.
रॉकर.
Lover.
Idol.
vanished. ''
osteonecrosis of the जबड़ों ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various forms of ONJ have महरूम वर्णित over the last 160 years, and a number of causes have been suggested in the literature.
Osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate therapy, required by some cancer treatment regimens, रै महरूम पहचाना और पारिभाषित as a pathological entity since 2003.
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates, taken by मरीजों to prevent or treat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have been छान, however कठोर मामले of ONJ still require surgical removal of the affected bone.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of dental infection are जरूरी to सहायता prevent the कंडीशन, विशेषकर if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in Boston, मैसाचुसेट्स, और a सदस्य of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's American League Eastern Division.
Founded in as एक of the अमरीकी League 's eight charter franchises, the Red Sox 's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since.
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner, John I. Taylor, around, following previous Boston टीमों कि था महरूम ज्ञात as the `` रेड stockings ``.
They have played in 11 संसार श्रेणी, winning 7.
Boston was a dominant team in the new league, defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the पहला World Series in and winning four more championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history, called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees two years after their world championship in 1918, an 86-year wait before the टोली 's छठे संसार चैंपियनशिप in.
However, the team 's history during that period was hardly one of futility, but was rather punctuated with some of the most memorable moments in World Series history, including Enos वध 's `` mad डैश `` in, the `` नामुमकिन सपना `` of, कार्लटन फिस्क 's घर चलाएं in, and Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history has also been marked by the टोली 's तीव्र फंसने साथ the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़, arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports.
The Boston Red Sox are owned by fenway खेल समूह, जो भी own Liverpool Football Club of the Premier League in England.
The Red Sox are consistently one of the शीर्ष एमएलबी टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति, जबकि the small capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 खेल ( 794 नियमित ऋतु ) लिये a प्रमुख पेशेवर sports record that lasted almost a decade.
Mince pie filled साथ mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped dried fruit, distilled spirits and spices, and sometimes बीफ suet, बीफ, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat सदा contained meat.
अनेक आधुनिक व्यंजनों contain बीफ suet, though vegetable shortening is sometimes used in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia, Brittany, Canada, northern यूरोपीय, आयरलैंड, दक्षिण Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In कुछ देशों the term mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 अगस्त 1997 ) थी the पहला बीवी of चार्ल्स, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
She was well known लिये उसके fund-raising work for international charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her wedding to the प्रिंस of वेल्स on 29 जुलाई 1981 was held at St Paul 's Cathedral and seen by a global television audience of over 750 million.
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales, duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, duchess of rothesay, countess of चेस्टर और Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage produced two sons, the princes William and हैरी, जो became दूसरी और तीसरा in line to the British throne.
Diana was born into an वैभवशाली अंग्रेज़ी family with royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th Earl Spencer and his wife Frances, daughter of मौरिस रोश, 4th सामन्त fermoy.
She became a public figure with the घोषणा of her engagement.
She also received recognition for her charity work and for her support of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अभियान to बैन landmines.
From 1989, she was the president of the Great Ormond Street हॉस्पिटल लिये children, in जोड to dozens of other charities.
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during और बाद उसके विवाह, जिससे ended in तलाक on 28 August 1996.
Media attention and public mourning were considerable following her death in a car क्रैश in पेरिस on 31 अगस्त 1997.
Argentina, officially the Argentine Republic ( ), is the second largest देश in दोनो दक्षिण अमेरिका और the लैटिन अमेरिका region.
The country is a federation of 23 प्रांतों and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires, its capital and largest city.
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among spanish-speaking राष्ट्र by भौगोलिक area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population, with over 41 million people.
Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations, Mercosur, the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र, the संगठन of ibero-american राज्य, the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South अमेरिका, bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण, बोलीविया and Paraguay to the north and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast.
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica, the Falkland आइलैंड्स ( ) और दक्षिण जॉर्जिया and the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor राज्य of the viceroyalty of the río de la Plata, an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire.
Argentina declared स्वतंत्रता दौरान the अर्जेंटाइन War of Independence, which was followed by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The country faced अनेक सैन्य coups और राजनैतिक अस्थिरता दौरान the 20th century, along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day.
A recognized Southern Cone power, and middle power, Argentina is Latin America 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था, साथ a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index.
Within Latin America, Argentina has the पांचवां उच्चतम नाममात्र जीडीपी प्रति capita and the highest in purchasing power terms.
The Legatum Institute have argued that the देश रै a `` न्यास लिये भविष्य growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct investment, and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '', and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy.
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel Prizes, for a total of five, all प्राप्त दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the बीसवीं century.
The country has three Nobel prizes in science और दो of peace.
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine, nuclear physics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, स्पेस और प्रक्षेपास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और अनेक फ़ील्ड सम्बन्धित to the country 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the mega exhibition center of science, प्रौद्योगिकी, उद्योग और आर्ट कि हैं लैटिन अमेरिका 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba County, साथ भाग भी in Burke County and Caldwell County.
The city 's 2010 अनुमानित population is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA, in which the जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, पीट, or the obsolete petp or pet-p, is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in synthetic fibers ; beverage, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber.
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion because इस पदार्थ, पालतु, करता नहीं contain polyethylene.
यूँ, the वैकल्पिक रूप, poly ( ethylene terephthalate ), is often used in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy and clarity.
depending on इसके प्रसंस्करण और थर्मल इतिहास, polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer.
The semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( कण आकार < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी और श्वेत ( कण size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol साथ जल as a byproduct, or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation प्रतिक्रिया of the monomers ( किया तत्काल after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), साथ बोतल उत्पादन accounting for around 30 % of global demand.
In the context of textile applications, PET is referred to by its आम नाम, `` पॉलिएस्टर, '' whereas the एक्रोनिम `` पालतु '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up परिचय 18 % of संसार पॉलिमर उत्पादन और is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second, respectively.
पालतु consists of polymerized इकाई of the मोनोमर ethylene terephthalate, with repeating C10H8O4 units.
पालतु is commonly recycled, and has the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol.
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30, 1812, and elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3.
Its current सीनेटरों हैं डेमोक्रेट मरियम Landrieu and Republican David Vitter.
Black pudding, blood pudding or blood sausage is a type of sausage made by cooking blood or सूखी रक्त साथ a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled.
The dish exists in various संस्कृतियों इससे एशिया to Europe and the Americas.
सुअर, चौपायों, sheep, duck, and goat blood can be used depending on different countries.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers include meat, fat, suet, ब्रैड, cornmeal, मीठी आलू, प्याज, chestnuts, barley, and oatmeal.
In Spain, Portugal and Asia, आलू is प्रायः replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, group, संगठन, सदस्य or प्रणाली जो affects or can be affected by an organization 's actions
शेयरधारक, an एंटिटी कि can be affected by the results of that in which they are said to be stakeholders, i.e., that in which they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a person, group or संगठन साथ an ब्याज in a project
Stakeholder सिद्धान्त, a theory that identifies and models the groups which are stakeholders of a corporation or project
Stakeholder analysis, the process of identifying those प्रभावित by a प्रोजेक्ट or इवेंट
Stakeholder ( law ), a third party जो temporarily holds धन or प्रॉपर्टी जबकि its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9, 1925 - September 1, 2003 ) थी an अमरीकी theatre and film director.
Smight was born in मिनियापोलिस, मिनेसोटा and went to school with future actor Peter Graves.
His film credits include The Traveling जल्लाद, खरगोश, चलाएं, मीत युगल, मिडवे, हार्पर, विमानक्षेत्र 1975, फटकार alley and the Emmy Award -winning Eddie, as well as many episodes of television series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour.
He also निर्देशित the 1960 ब्रॉडवे खेल The 49th Cousin and composed the music for the film adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry.
Smight died from cancer in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 फ़रवरी 1907 o.s. 27 जनवरी 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor.
He formulated the Periodic Law, created his own version of the आवधिक तालिका of तत्व, और used it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the City of Modesto, is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States.
With a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census, Modesto बाँधने as the 18th largest नगर in the state of California.
The Modesto Census County Division, which includes the cities of ceres और riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the central valley area of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 मील उत्तर of fresno, 92 मील ईस्ट of सैन फ्रांसिस्को, 68 मील दक्षिण of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles south of Stockton.
modesto, a 29-time पेड़ नगर यूएसए honoree, is surrounded by rich farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, chickens, walnuts, and corn silage, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011.
modesto थी immortalized in the 1973 George Lucas film American Graffiti.
The award winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th गलियों in 1962 और led to the पुनरुद्धार of 1950 's nostalgia कि शामिल the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
रॉन हावर्ड, हैरिसन Ford and Richard Dreyfuss starred in the film.
The साउंडट्रैक थी a विशाल success.
Director George Lucas is a देशी of Modesto, graduating from Downey High School in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants daily and asks individuals to assess their कार्य, finances, शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य, emotional राज्य of mind and communities, ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
In December 2009, Forbes ranked Modesto 48th आउट of 100 among `` बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck Cities ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability and travel time but also ranked 86th in जॉब भविष्यवाणी विकास और 99th in foreclosures.
Independence Day, commonly known as the Fourth of July, is a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on जुलाई 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, कॉन्सर्ट, बेसबॉल खेल, परिवार reunions, और राजनैतिक speeches and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the United States.
Independence Day is the national दिन of the संयुक्त States.
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an सजीव or characterizes an agent by gender.
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ और मादा ♀ हैं निकला इससे astrological symbols, denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus, respectively.
ये प्रतीकों have महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि the पुनर्जागरण भी denoting elements in alchemy, specifically the metals iron and copper.
They were first used to denote the प्रभावी लिंग of plants ( i.e. sex of individual in a given crossbreed, since most plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary सही to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in जिससे a lessee or a किरायेदार holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a tenant does hold rights to real property, a leasehold estate is typically माना निजी प्रॉपर्टी.
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure where one party buys the सही to occupy जमीन or a भवन for a given length of time.
As lease is a legal estate, leasehold estate can be खरीदा and sold on the open market.
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an indeterminate लंबाई of समय, और भी differs इससे a tenancy जहाँ a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly.
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease, जिससे रै तत्व of अनुबंध and property law intertwined.
The term एस्टेट for years may occasionally be used.
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific period of time ( the शब्द `` सालो '' is भ्रामक ).
An estate for years is नहीं automatically renewed.
Colloquially, `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer, विशिष्ट काल as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short period.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig Olivia ) is a british-american children 's एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is seen on उपनाम jr. in the US, Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland, and Disney Junior in Latin America and Brazil, treehouse tv in कनाडा.
the दिखाएँ रै जीती a silver Parents ' Choice Award for its positive story lines and characters.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( bottom ) और caribbean ( शीर्ष ), with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship कनाल in पनामा कि connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean.
the कनाल cuts across the Isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
वहीँ हैं ताले at प्रत्येक समाप्त to lift ships up to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level ).
Gatun झील थी निर्मित to reduce the amount of work required for the canal.
The वर्तमान ताले हैं wide.
A third, wider लेन of locks is being built.
France began work on the canal in 1881, but had to stop because of engineering problems and high mortality due to disease.
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914, enabling ships to avoid the lengthy केप सींग रूट around the southernmost टिप of दक्षिण America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult अभियान्त्रिकी प्रोजेक्ट ever undertaken, the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required.
The shorter, faster, safer route to the US वेस्ट coast और to राष्ट्र in और साथ the Pacific Ocean allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy.
During this time, ownership of the territory that is now the Panama Canal was first Colombian, तब फ्रेंच, और तब अमरीकी ; the United States completed the construction.
the कनाल was taken over in 1999 by the Panamanian government, as long planned.
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 जहाजों जब the कनाल खोली in 1914, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons.
By 2008, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the कनाल, अनेक of them much larger than the original planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax.
The American Society of सिविल इंजीनियर्स has named the Panama Canal one of the seven wonders of the modern world.
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790 ) was one of the founding fathers of the संयुक्त राज्य.
A noted polymath, Franklin was a leading author, मुद्रक, राजनैतिक theorist, राजनेता, postmaster, वैज्ञानिक, musician, inventor, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat.
As a scientist, he was a major figure in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
He invented the बिजली rod, bifocals, the Franklin stove, a carriage odometer, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated many civic organizations, including a fire विभाग और a विश्वविद्यालयों.
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity ; as an author and प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies, then as the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.
Franklin थी foundational in धमक the अमरीकी ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, `` In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the आत्मज्ञान बगैर its heat. ''
To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the सबसे संपन्नता अमरीकी of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working class roots, became a successful समाचारपत्र एडिटर और मुद्रक in फिलाडेल्फिया, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania Chronicle, a newspaper that was known for its क्रांतिकारी sentiments और आलोचनाओं of the British monarchy in the American colonies.
He became wealthy प्रकाशन ग़रीब रिचर्ड 's almanack and The Pennsylvania Gazette.
Franklin gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय renown as a वैज्ञानिक for his famous experiments in electricity and for his many inventions, especially the lightning rod.
He played a major role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania and was निर्वाचित the पहला अध्यक्ष of the American Philosophical Society.
Franklin became a national hero in America when he पथप्रदर्शन the प्रयत्न to have पार्लियामेंट repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the विकास of positive Franco-American relations.
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies, जिससे सक्रिय उसे to नियत up the पहला नेशनल communications network.
He was active in community affairs, colonial and state politics, as खूब as national and international affairs.
From 1785 to 1788, he served as राज्यपाल of Pennsylvania.
toward the समाप्त of उसके जीवन, he freed his slaves and became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific और राजनैतिक उपलब्धि, और औकात as एक of अमेरिका 's सबसे influential founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of many towns, counties, educational institutions, namesakes, and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
Criminal Minds is an American police procedural टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम कि premiered सितंबर 22, 2005, on CBS.
The series follows a team of profilers from the एफबीआई 's behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico, Virginia.
The BAU is part of the FBI National Center for the Analysis of हिंसक अपराधों.
The show differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on profiling the criminal, बल्कि than the अपराधों itself.
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount Network टेलीविज़न तब सीबीएस सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS announced in अक्तूबर 2009 कि विरासत इंटरैक्टिव would develop a video game based on the show.
The game would require players to जाँचें अपराधों scenes for clues to help solve murder mysteries.
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012, but did not विशेषता कोई of the आवाज़ें of the दिखाएँ 's cast, nor was the cast involved with the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an आठवीं ऋतु, जिससे premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a सोंग by the अमरीकी grunge band Nirvana, written by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain.
The song was released as the first single from the group 's third and final studio एल्बम, in utero, in 1993.
It was one of two songs from the album mixed by Scott Litt in order to augment the असली उत्पादन by निर्माता Steve Albini.
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in the United States, `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American रेडियो airplay, reaching क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड Modern Rock Tracks chart.
The international release of the single reached क्रमांक five on the UK Singles Chart.
The song 's music video, directed by एंटोन corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
The orbital speed of a देह, generally a ग्रह, a प्राकृतिक उपग्रह, an artificial satellite, or a multiple star, is the speed at which it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed, the average गति as it completes an कक्षा, or instantaneous कक्षीय speed, the speed at a particular point in its orbit.
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the distance to the central body at that position, and the specific orbital energy, which is independent of position : the kinetic उर्जा is the कुल उर्जा minus the potential energy.
Brown राजमहल आंतरिक and Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating होटल in डेनवर, कोलोराडो और is एक of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is now संचालित by कोरम होटल and Resorts.
it थी निर्मित in 1892, one year later than the Oxford Hotel.
It was named for its original owner, Henry C. Brown, and was designed with its odd triangular आकार by वास्तु फ़्रैंक edbrooke.
The hotel is located at 321 17th St, Denver, CO between 17th Street, ब्रॉडवे और tremont street/pl in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
The प्रमुख प्रवेश door is on Tremont Street.
dvd-video is a उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप प्रयुक्त to store digital video on DVD discs, and is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the dvd-video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for DVD movies सीमाएँ इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was पहला available for retail around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained इससे dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the DVD Book is मालिकाना और confidential.
The nautical मील ( प्रतीक m, nm or nmi ) is a ईकाई of लंबाई कि is परिचय one minute of arc of latitude measured along any meridian, or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator.
By international अनुबंध it रै महरूम set at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for use in the International System of Units by the BIPM ) प्रयुक्त especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries, and also in polar exploration.
It is commonly used in international law and treaties, especially regarding the हद of territorial waters.
It developed from the sea mile और the related geographical mile.
The nautical mile remains in उपयोग by समुद्र और एयर navigators विश्वव्यापी क्युकी of इसके convenience when working with charts.
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about a factor of six इससे the equator to 80° अक्षांश, so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart, so a distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using the चार्ट 's latitude scale.
Shippensburg is a borough in कम्बरलैंड और फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, Shippensburg lies in the कम्बरलैंड घाटी, 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; और in 1940, 5,244 people lived there.
The population थी 5,492 at the 2010 census.
shippensburg थी incorporated as a borough on January 21, 1819.
In the past, there were furniture factories, engine and pump works, and other industrial works located within the town.
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest और largest निर्माता of सजावट and party goods, which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide.
It is also the location of Pague and Fegan, the oldest continuously संचालित हार्डवेयर स्टोर in Pennsylvania.
In May 2012, Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 लाख विस्तार project to bring its American headquarters to Shippensburg.
Shippensburg is भी घर to shippensburg विश्वविद्यालयों of Pennsylvania, one of 14 universities of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education.
Yearly the last full week of July, the Shippensburg Community Fair is आयोजित.
Begun in 1958, the fair bills itself as पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest bi-county fair.
The मेला शामिल agricultural exhibits, a craft show, food vendors, and carnival rides amongst other things.
Every summer on the last Saturday of August, Shippensburg holds the Corn Festival, an event that brings क्षेत्रीय शिल्पकार और विक्रेता to operate stands downtown.
The शहर is बंद to traffic for at least 5 blocks for most of the day.
Average उपस्थिति at the पर्व is estimated at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
Black hairy tongue ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a ब्लैक और बालदार रूप.
The appearance may be alarming, but it is a हानिरहित कंडीशन.
Predisposing factors include धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, poor oral hygiene and certain medications.
Management is by improving मौखिक hygiene, विशेषकर scraping or brushing the tongue.
The IEEE 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a सीरियल bus interface standard for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer.
It थी विकसित in the late 1980s and early 1990s by Apple, who called it FireWire.
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB, and often those two technologies are माना साथ, though USB has more market share.
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 models, and most Apple computers since the year 2000 have included FireWire पोर्ट, हालांकि, as of 2013, nothing परे the 800 संस्करण ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK ( Sony ), and Lynx ( Texas यंत्र ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many applications, because of lower implementation लागत और a सरलीकृत, अधिक अनुकूलनीय cabling system.
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane interface, हालांकि इस is नहीं as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection interface for A/V ( audio/visual ) component communication and control.
FireWire is also available in wireless, fiber optic, and coaxial versions using the isochronous प्रोटोकॉल.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is best known as a founding member and नेता of दोगुना Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the blues पुनरुद्धार of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट while their albums frequently went gold.
He was born और उठाया in डलास, टेक्सास, and for a short period of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining समूह ऐसे as krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed ट्रिपल threat revue, a बैंड कि आखिरकार evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the ध्यान of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free उपयोग of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and दोगुना ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to Epic Records by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया to दे up a कोका और दारू habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and earned them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues प्रदर्शन.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a प्रदर्शन in ईस्ट ट्रॉय, विस्कॉन्सिन.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and muddy waters, और चट्टान guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic scales.
He has प्राप्त चौड़ी नाजुक recognition for his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the ब्लूज़ हॉल of कीर्ति in 2000 और a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये from the state of Texas.
GigE redirects यहाँ.
लिये the कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल, see GigE vision.
In computer networking, gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a term describing various technologies लिये transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ), as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into use beginning in 1999, धीरे supplanting तेज़ ईथरनेट in wired local networks, where it performed considerably faster.
The cables and equipment are very similar to previous मानकों और यहूद बहुत आम and economical by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are अनुमत by the specification, लकिन full-duplex usage with switches is much more common.
इंटेल pro/1000 GT PCI network interface card
The main components of a stamp:
1. चित्र
2. perforations
3. Denomination
4. देश name
A postage stamp is a small piece of पेपर कि is खरीदा और प्रदर्शित on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage.
Typically, stamps are made from special paper, with a national नामांकन और denomination ( दाम ) on the face, and a gum adhesive on the reverse side.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are used to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल in चलती मेल as खूब as अन्य कारोबार necessities such as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a small rectangle of varying proportions, though त्रिकोण or अन्य आकार हैं occasionally used.
The stamp is affixed to an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e., packet, बक्सा, mailing बेलन ) कि the customer wishes to send.
the मद is तब processed by the डाक प्रणाली, जहाँ a postmark, sometimes ज्ञात as a cancellation mark, is usually applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the तिथि and point of origin of the mailing.
the mailed मद is तब वितरित to the address that the customer has applied to the envelope or cover.
Postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of मेल चूंकि the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), प्रायः बना इससे लकडी or cork, were often used to frank the mail and confirm the payment of postage.
The first चिपकने postage stamp, commonly referred to as the Penny Black, was issued in the United Kingdom in 1840.
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, which in the early 19th century was in disarray and rife with corruption.
There are varying accounts of the आविष्कारक or inventors of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient, a प्रणाली कि थी संबद्ध साथ an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम : the लागत of delivering मेल यहूद नहीं recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items, and senders had no incentive to restrict the number, size, or weight of items sent, whether or not they would ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a सरल और elegant manner, with the additional benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced.
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage लिफाफे, पोस्ट ताश, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage meters, and, more recently, specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the मेलर और डाक officials, more efficiently recovered costs for the postal service, and ultimately resulted in a better, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps during this era were the most लोकप्रिय रास्ता of paying लिये मेल, लकिन by the समाप्त of the 20th सदी यहूद rapidly being eclipsed by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses. )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost of long अलहदा टेलीफोन संचार और the विकास and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with उनके engraved imagery began to appear on a widespread basis, historians and collectors began to take notice.
The study of postage stamps and their use is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be both a hobby and a form of historical study and reference, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing systems have सदा महरूम शामिल साथ the इतिहास of nations.
The University of अलबामा at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public university in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama.
Developing इससे an एक्सटेंशन बीच established in 1936, the institution became an autonomous institution in 1969 and is today one of three institutions in the University of Alabama System.
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's, master 's, doctoral, and professional degrees in the social and behavioral sciences, the liberal arts, business, education, engineering, and health-related fields ऐसे as आयुर्विज्ञान, dentistry, optometry, नर्सिंग, और पब्लिक health.
The school is highly renowned for its medical research और प्राकृतिक sciences programs.
The UAB Health System, one of the largest अकादमिक चिकित्सा centers in the United States, is affiliated with the university.
UAB Hospital sponsors रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम in विभिन्न चिकित्सा specialties, including internal medicine, neurology, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma center in Alabama, as rated by the American कॉलेज of Surgeons Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, with more than 18,000 faculty and staff and over 53,000 कार्य at the university and in the health system.
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in 33 कार्य in the राज्य of अलबामा हैं directly or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall सालाना आर्थिक impact was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the University of Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 विद्यार्थी इससे अधिक than 110 देशों, including 1,605 freshmen.
There are plans to commence with an `` aggressive '' growth in नामांकन at UAB.
The current UAB President is Dr. रे L. watts.
Tofu, also called bean curd, is a food made by coagulating सोया रस और then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
It is a component in many East Asian और southeast एशियाई cuisines.
There are many different varieties of tofu, including fresh tofu और टोफू कि रै महरूम processed in some way.
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in savory और मीठी बर्तन.
it is प्रायः seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
Tofu originated in ancient चीन कुछ 2,000 years ago.
Chinese legend ascribes its invention to prince Liu An ( चाइनीज : 劉安 liú ān, 179–122 BC ).
Tofu and its production तकनीक यहूद introduced into कोरियाई and then Japan during the Nara period.
It spread into अन्य भाग of East Asia as well.
This स्प्रेड संभावित coincided with the spread of Buddhism because it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism.
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty described a method of बनाना टोफू in Bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie count, relatively विशाल amounts of protein, and little fat.
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in manufacturing, may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a आम चिंपैंजी, ज्ञात लिये होने the one-time पालतु of अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार Michael Jackson, who bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s.
The animal was a frequent travel साथी to the singer, whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery and, among other factors, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad World Tour, for example, Jackson brought Bubbles with him to Japan, जहाँ वे दोनो पिया tea with the mayor of Osaka.
Bubbles was initially kept at the जैक्सन परिवार 's home in Encino, Los Angeles, but was moved to Neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom, used the singer 's प्रसाधन, और ate कैंडी in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the public सीखे कि, जैसे सब खिलाते chimpanzees, Bubbles had matured into a large and aggressive adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal.
He was sent to a California animal trainer, where he was reported to have attempted suicide.
When the trainer shut down his operation in 2004, Bubbles was moved to the Center for Great Apes, a sanctuary in wauchula, फ्लोरिडा, जहाँ he रै जिया चूंकि 2005.
Muse are an English rock band from Teignmouth, Devon, which formed in 1994.
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals, lead guitar, पियानो, keyboards, keytar ), क्रिस्टोफर Wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 album Black Holes and Revelations, keyboardist और percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band.
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres, सहित स्पेस चट्टान, प्रगतिशील चट्टान, वैकल्पिक चट्टान, heavy metal, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ), Absolution ( 2003 ), Black छेद और खुलासे ( 2006 ), the प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ) और the 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have also issued three live albums, Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ), जिससे is भी a संकलन of b-sides, Absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
Black छेद और खुलासे earned the band a Mercury Prize nomination and a third place finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006.
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history, सहित पाँच एमटीवी यूरोपीय म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, छह q पुरस्कार, आठ nme पुरस्कार, two Brit Awards —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice, an MTV Video Music Award, four Kerrang !
पुरस्कार and an American Music Award.
They were also मनोनीत लिये पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, of जिससे वे won Best Rock Album, for their fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ).
Muse have sold over 15 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch लिये `` फव्वारा of पुष्प '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the Free State Province of South Africa ; and, as the judicial capital of the nation, one of South Africa 's three national capitals – the other two being Cape Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of roses ``, owing to the प्रचुरता of ये पुष्प और the सालाना rose festival held there.
the नगर 's sesotho नाम is Mangaung, meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क घासभूमि at, at an altitude of above sea level.
The city is घर to 369,568 निवासियों, जबकि the Mangaung Local Municipality has a population of 645,455.
Where Do we आइये From ?
कया हैं We ?
Where हैं we Going ?
One of post-impressionist Paul Gauguin 's most famous paintings.
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of life or existence in general.
It can also be expressed in different forms, such as `` क्यों हैं we यहाँ ? ``, `` कया is जीवन सब परिचय ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It has been the विषय of much philosophical, वैज्ञानिक, and theological speculation throughout history.
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from अनेक अलग सांस्कृतिक और वैचारिक पृष्ठभूमि.
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on many other issues, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, शुभ और दुष्ट, फ़्री होगा, the अस्तित्व of एक or अनेक देवताओं, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context और पैरामीटर्स concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being और a सम्बन्धित धारणा of morality.
An alternative, humanistic approach poses the सवाल `` कया is the अर्थ of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the achievement of परम वास्तविकता, or a अहसास of oneness, or भी a अहसास of sacredness.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin, stewie griffin, ब्रायन griffin, और ग्लेन कीचड़.
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five main voice actors, और numerous नियमित डाल और पुनरावर्ती अतिथि stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
पुनरावर्ती आवाज़ अभिनेताओं शामिल पैट्रिक warburton, आदम वेस्ट, John G. Brennan, Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide आवाज़ें for multiple characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the show, draw inspiration from हस्तियाँ और पॉप संस्कृति.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor, बाद members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie पुरस्कार लिये voicing मेग griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane रै भी won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production, though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 Illustration by एडमंड dulac
`` The राजकुमारी और the मटर '' ( ; शाब्दिक अनुवाद : `` the राजकुमारी on the मटर '' ) is a साहित्यिक fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first published with three others by Andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 may 1835 in Copenhagen by C.A. Reitzel.
Andersen had heard the story as a child, and it likely has its सोर्स in लोक सामग्री, possibly originating from Sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition.
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well received by Danish critics, who disliked उनके कैज़ुअल, chatty स्टाइल, और उनके कमी of morals.
In 1959 `` the राजकुमारी और the मटर '' थी adapted to the musical stage in a production called Once Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett.
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the संयुक्त राज्य जो यहूद either born in Germany or are of German ancestry.
They comprise about 50 million people, making them the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish अमेरिकी, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और अंग्रेज़ी अमेरिकी.
They comprise about 1/3 of the जर्मनी diaspora सब over the world.
None of the German states had New World colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the first significant समूह of जर्मनी आप्रवासियों arrive in the British colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania.
आव्रजन जारी in बहुत विशाल संख्याएँ दौरान the 19th century, with some eight million arrivals from Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom, and धकेल out of Europe by shortages of land and religious or political oppression.
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom, others for आर्थिक अवसर वृहद than those in यूरोपीय, और अन्य बस लिये the chance to start fresh in the New World.
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out the most productive जमीन, जहाँ उनके intensive खेती तकनीकों would pay off.
After 1840, many came to cities, where `` Germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon emerged.
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United States, introduced the Christmas tree tradition, and originated लोकप्रिय अमरीकी भोजन ऐसे as hot कुत्तो and hamburgers.
German American celebrations are held throughout the country, one of the most well-known being the german-american steuben परेड in नई यॉर्क नगर, आयोजित every third Saturday in September.
There are also major सालाना कार्यक्रम in शिकागो, Cincinnati, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and other cities.
Like many other आप्रवासियों कि आए to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming number of people of German or partial German descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United States संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
The history of the Internet began with the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the अंतरजाल जब a संदेश थी भेजा over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California, Los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, tymnet, और telenet, यहूद विकसित in the लेट 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in which multiple separate संजाल could be joined साथ into a संजाल of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol सुइट ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत, और नतीजतन, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( csnet ) और again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided अभिगम to महासंगणक साइट in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET थी decommissioned in 1990.
the Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic मेल, तत्काल messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स, और the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, commerce, entertainment, और सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline and the world 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in Dallas, Texas.
It was स्थापित in 1967 और अपनाया इसके current name in 1971.
The airline has more than 46,000 employees और operates अधिक than 3,400 फ़्लाइट per day.
As of June 5, 2011, it carries the सबसे घरेलू यात्री of any U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, Southwest Airlines has scheduled सेवा to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 states and Puerto Rico.
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s, except for a few years in the 1970s और 1980s, जब it operated Boeing 727s.
As of अगस्त 2012, दक्षिणपश्चिम is the largest operator of the 737 worldwide with over 550 in service, each operating an average of six flights per day.
In May 2011, the airline acquired AirTran Airways, with संयोजन of the वाहक अपेक्षित to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the कम्पनी थी जारी a सिंगल ऑपरेटिंग प्रमाणपत्र, technically becoming one airline.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe brewing कम्पनी.
Although founded as a local beer in Western Pennsylvania, it थी marketed aggressively और आखिरकार became a national product.
The brand was sold to anheuser-busch of st. Louis, Missouri, in mid 2006, which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on 16 April 1927 ) is पोप emeritus of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
He परोसा as Pope from 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and sovereign of the वेटिकन City State.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 April 2005, and took कब्ज़ा of उसके गिरजाघर, the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran, on 7 May 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, Ratzinger established himself as a अत्यधिक regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian by the लेट 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958.
After a long career as an academic, serving as a प्राध्यापक of धर्मशास्त्र at अनेक जर्मनी universities—the पिछला होने the विश्वविद्यालयों of regensburg, जहाँ he परोसा as वाइस अध्यक्ष of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience.
In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as pope, he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals, and as such, the primus inter pares among the कार्डिनल्स.
Prior to becoming pope, he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the most respected, influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none जब it आए to सेटिंग गिरिजाघर प्राथमिकताएं and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants.
He थी originally a उदार theologian, but adopted conservative views after 1968.
His prolific writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine और मान.
During his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a return to आधारभूत ईसाई मान to काउंटर the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the सेंट्रल प्रॉब्लम of the 21st century.
He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an समझना of परमेश्वर 's redemptive love.
Pope बेनेडिक्ट भी revived a क्रमांक of परंपराओं including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position.
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, viewing the use of beauty as a path to the sacred, promoted the use of Latin, and reintroduced परंपरागत papal garments, लिये जिससे कारण he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
He has been described as `` the main intellectual force in the गिरिजाघर '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from उसके अकादमिक करियर हैं भी prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 फ़रवरी 2013, Pope Benedict announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the cardinals, citing a `` lack of strength of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
His resignation became प्रभावी on 28 February 2013.
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, और the पहला to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, and the title of Pope, and will continue to पोशाक in the papal रंग of white.
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated Mater ecclesiae मठ लिये उसके रिटायरमेंट on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope साथ original test image.
Used by military to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial छायाचित्र.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic card लिये देखने a झाँकी इससे प्रकृति
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus और सेट of stereo slides.
patented by A. Fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs, पेंटिंग by याक़ूब spoel, before 1868.
A very early depiction of लोगों using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating or enhancing the भ्रम of गहराई in an चित्र by अर्थात् of stereopsis for binocular vision.
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` firm, solid '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to see ''.
Most stereoscopic methods present two ऑफसेट बिंब separately to the left and right eye of the viewer.
These two-dimensional images are then संयुक्त in the brain to give the perception of 3D depth.
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display an image in तीन पूरा आयाम, allowing the निरीक्षक to बढ़ाएँ सूचना about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by head and eye movements.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the first vice president of the United States.
An American Founding Father, he थी a statesman, राजनयिक, and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early चरण of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental Congress, he निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the घोषणा of Independence in 1776, and was its primary advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a राजनयिक in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain, and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी, बहकावे American political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, और 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल to be मुख्य इंसाफ of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the दूसरी president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ फ़्रांस, 1798–1800.
the प्रमुख accomplishment of उसके presidency was his peaceful resolution of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams थी पराजित लिये re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He later resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन.
He and his wife, अबीगैल Adams, founded an accomplished family line of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams, the sixth अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य.
His achievements have received greater मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स, हालांकि his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the White House.
the संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the U.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the reverse.
( हैमिल्टन is एक of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is Benjamin Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) जो थी नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 Hawaii राज्य quarter. )
All $ 10 bills issued आज हैं संघीय Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to wear.
लगभग 6 % of सब us banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the बाएँ, लकिन थी प्रयुक्त तभी for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a यामाहा waverunner XL performing a high-speed turn.
A jetboat is a नाव propelled by a जेट of water ejected from the back of the craft.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water नीचे or पीछे the boat, a jetboat draws the water from under the boat into a pump inside the boat, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) for operation in the fast-flowing and shallow rivers of New जीलैंड, specifically to overcome the प्रॉब्लम of propellers striking रॉक्स in ऐसे waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient design of the units and the फैक्ट कि वे offered few लाभ over conventional propellers.
Unlike these previous waterjet developments, such as Campini 's and the Hanley Hydrojet, हैमिल्टन था a विशिष्ट need लिये a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the popularity of the jet unit और jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a wide range of vessel types, and as such, waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels, including passenger ferries, rescue craft, patrol boats and offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, and many can, from full speed, be reversed and brought to a रोकें भीतर छोटी अधिक than उनके अपना लंबाई, in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the नाव 's इंजन throttle is काटें, the परिचालन is turned sharply and the throttle opened again, causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water.
There is no अभियान्त्रिकी सीमा to the आकार of jetboats, हालांकि the वैध of their use depends a lot on the type of application.
Classic prop-drives हैं generally अधिक कुशल और किफायती at कम speeds, up to about, but as boat speed increases beyond this, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ).
Also, in situations with very large propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug नौकाएँ ), the समतुल्य आकार waterjet would be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the vast majority of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels and in particular परिस्थितियों जहाँ उथले draught, maneuverability, and load flexibility are main concerns.
The biggest jet-driven vessels are मिला in सैन्य उपयोग or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry.
South Africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even these German-built vessels are capable of performing `` क्रैश stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as inflammation of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the मध्य, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral और thorough परिक्षा by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along with urgent treatment to control the inflammation.
Eric `` e. ''
Murphy is a fictional character on the comedy-drama television series Entourage.
he is निभाई by Kevin Connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, and starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, scatman Crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
the फिल्मी is आधारित on the Stephen King novel The Shining.
A writer, Jack Torrance, takes a job as an off-season कार्यवाहक at an पृथक होटल.
His young son possesses psychic abilities और is समर्थ to देखिए बाते इससे the पास्ट और future, such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
Soon after settling in, the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm, and Jack gradually becomes बहकावे by a अलौकिक उपस्थिति ; he उतरता into madness and attempts to murder his wife and son.
Unlike previous Kubrick films, which developed an audience धीरे by भवन on word-of-mouth, The Shining was released as a mass-market film, opening at first in just two cities on Memorial Day, then nationwide a month later.
Although initial response to the film was mixed, later critical assessment was more favorable and it is now viewed as a क्लासिक of the हॉरर genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, writing in The Daily जानवर, क्रमित it as एक of the 11 scariest horror movies of all time.
Film critics, film students, और kubrick 's producer, Jan Harlan, have remarked on the enormous influence the film has had on popular culture.
The initial European रिलीज of the जगमगाता थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the American version, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
Patio कोला बोतल
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of diet soda introduced by पेप्सी in 1963.
It थी निर्मित in जवाब to Diet Rite Cola, which was the first diet cola on the market.
Fitness प्रवर्तक डिब्बी ड्रेक was Patio Diet Cola 's spokesperson.
In 1964, Patio released orange, अंगूर, और रूट बियर जायका.
This flavor line थी नहीं meant to compete with brands like Orange Crush, but rather fill out the line.
आँगन sodas यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in the cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores.
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the समय, bottlers were regionally franchised, and related advertising was necessarily local.
In 1964, आँगन आहार cola became Diet Pepsi.
The newly branded आहार सोडा थी advertised alongside पेप्सी साथ the tagline `` Pepsi either way '', which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor ''.
The short life span of Patio Diet कोला makes it a ग्रेट जोड लिये बोतल collectors.
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors were phased out by the जल्दी 1970s, जबकि a few बच जबतक the मिड 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a समाज or enterprise, or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural elements that provide framework supporting an संपूर्ण ढांचा of विकास.
It is an important term for judging a country or प्रदेश 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society, such as roads, पुलों, जल सप्लाई, sewers, विद्युत ग्रिड, दूरसंचार, and so forth, and can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable, sustain, or enhance societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and सेवाएं, और भी the वितरण of finished products to markets, as well as basic social services such as schools and hospitals ; for example, roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory.
In military parlance, the पद refers to the इमारतें और permanent installations necessary for the support, redeployment, and operation of military forces.
to मेक it सरल, अवसंरचना is anything that is needed everyday, an everyday item.
A आलेखीय प्रतिनिधित्व of the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial डीएनए.
Human genetic variation is the जेनेटिक मतभेद both within and among populations.
There may be multiple variants of any दिए जीन in the इंसान population ( genes ), leading to polymorphism.
Many genes are not polymorphic, meaning that only a single allele is present in the जनसांख्यिकी : the जीन is तब said to be fixed.
No two इंसानो हैं genetically identical.
भी monozygotic twins, who develop from one zygote, have infrequent genetic differences due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, भी closely सम्बन्धित individuals, are the key to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting.
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations, with populations that are more geographically और ancestrally रिमोट tending to differ more.
Causes of मतभेद between individuals शामिल the exchange of genes during meiosis and various mutational events.
There are at least two कारण क्यों जेनेटिक विभिन्नता exists between populations.
प्राकृतिक चयन may confer an adaptive advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles under selection are likely to occur only in those भौगोलिक regions जहाँ they confer an advantage.
The दूसरी प्रमुख कारण of genetic variation is due to the high degree of neutrality of most mutations.
सबसे mutations do नहीं appear to have any selective effect one way or the other on the organism.
The main cause is genetic drift, this is the effect of यादृच्छिक परिवर्तन in the gene pool.
In humans, founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of genetic बहाव ) may have था an महत्वपूर्ण influence in neutral differences between populations.
The theory that इंसानो recently migrated out of Africa supports this.
the पढ़ाई of इंसान जेनेटिक विभिन्नता has both evolutionary significance and medical applications.
It can help scientists understand ancient human population migrations as well as how different human groups are biologically सम्बन्धित to एक another.
For medicine, study of human genetic variation may be important because some disease-causing alleles occur more often in people from specific geographic regions.
New findings show that each human has on average 60 new mutations compared to उनके अभिभावक.
Apart from mutations, many जीनों कि may have aided इंसानो in ancient times plague humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes that allow humans to more efficiently process खाना हैं those कि मेक लोगों susceptible to obesity and diabetes today.
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the नेशनल मॉल at the करदाताओं कूच on वॉशिंगटन on सितंबर 12, 2009.
The Tea पार्टी गति is an अमरीकी राजनैतिक गति कि अधिवक्ताओं सख्त adherence to the संयुक्त States Constitution, reducing U.S. government spending and taxes, and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The movement has महरूम पुकारा partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The गति रै प्रायोजित विरोध and supported political candidates since 2009.
The name of the movement is निकला इससे the Boston Tea Party of 1773, an iconic event in American history.
Anti-tax प्रदर्शनकारियों in the United States have often referred to the original Boston Tea Party for inspiration.
References to the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी यहूद भाग of कर Day protests held throughout the 1990s and earlier.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some रूढ़िवादी कार्यकर्ताओं of mailing चाय bags to legislators and other officials as a symbolic act.
The currencies of प्यूर्टो रीको closely follow the historic development of Puerto Rico.
As a colony of Spain and the United States, Puerto Rico was granted the use of दोनो विदेशी and provincial currencies.
Following the स्पेनी colonization in 1502, Puerto Rico became an important port, with its own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves ran empty भीतर the सदी, the archipelago 's economy suffered.
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano, which meant that a semi-regular शिपमेंट of सुनहरा इससे the viceroyalty of नई स्पेन होता be भेजा to the island, as a way to provide economic support.
Between 1636 and 1637, फिलिप iv of स्पेन imposed a tax which had to be paid using a revenue stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto रीको began producing banknotes in 1766, बनने the पहला उपनिवेश to छपाई 8- रियल banknotes in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues.
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century, creating an economic crisis, as a result of Mexico gaining इसके स्वतंत्रता from Spain.
साल्वाडोर meléndez bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the issue of provincial banknotes, creating the Puerto Rican peso.
However, printing of these banknotes ceased बाद 1815.
During the following दशकों, विदेशी सिक्के became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s और 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the banco español de प्यूर्टो रीको was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed four श्रेणी और लगाई तीन in circulation under Spanish rule.
In 1895, a Royal Decree ordered the उत्पादन of provincial peso coins.
On August 13, 1898, the spanish-american युद्ध ended with Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United States.
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto रीको and issued bills equivalent to the United States dollar, creating the Puerto Rican dollar.
In 1902, the First National Bank of Porto Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner.
Two more श्रेणी यहूद issued until 1913.
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United States ' economic and monetary system, the Puerto Rican dollars यहूद redeemed लिये those जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य Treasury.
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues, सहित commemorative banknotes, private currency, and a quarter coin designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on अगस्त 28, 1898, तब to पेप्सी in 1961.
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, following the किताबे of यशायाह और यिर्मयाह and preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( The order is somewhat different in the ईसाई बूढ़ा वसीयत ).
It derives its name from, and records the visions of, the 6th सदी bc पुजारी और नबी ezekiel.
According to the book, the नबी, exiled in बाबुल, अनुभवी a श्रेणी of seven visions during the 22 years from 593 to 571 BC, a period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the book, are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) निर्णय on the राष्ट्र ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical Area, a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is named after Orléans, a city located on the Loire River in Centre, France, and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New ऑरलियन्स is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके भोजन, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the birthplace of jazz ), and its annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The नगर is प्रायः referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The city and Orleans मोहल्ला ( ) हैं.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. tammany to the उत्तर, st. बर्नार्ड to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the नगर हद, झूठ to the उत्तर and Lake Borgne lies to the east.
The National Birth Control League was a birth कंट्रोल organization in the United States.
It was संस्थापित in कूच 1915 by Mary Dennett, Clara Gruening Stillman and Jessie Ashley.
Its main purpose was to overturn the laws which बैन contraceptives इससे the U.S. mails.
Campaigns were mounted in New York, but in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the voluntary parenthood लीग.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant फुलाव, is a व्यापक group of various diseases, all involving unregulated cell growth.
In cancer, कोशिकाएं divide और grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby parts of the body.
The cancer may also spread to more दूर भाग of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
Not all tumors हैं cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do not invade neighboring ऊतकों, and do not spread throughout the body.
There are over 200 different known cancers कि पहुँचकर humans.
Determining what causes कर्कट is complex.
Many things are known to increase the risk of cancer, including tobacco use, certain infections, radiation, कमी of शारीरिक कार्यकलाप, मोटापा, and environmental pollutants.
These can directly damage genes or combine with existing genetic त्रुटियां भीतर cells to cause the disease.
Approximately five to ten percent of cancers हैं entirely hereditary.
Cancer can be detected in a number of तरीके, सहित the presence of certain signs and symptoms, screening tests, or medical imaging.
Once a possible कर्कट is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic examination of a tissue sample.
Cancer is usually treated with कीमोथेरेपी, विकिरण चिकित्सा and surgery.
The chances of surviving the बीमारी vary greatly by the type and location of the cancer and the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
While cancer can affect people of all ages, and a few types of कर्कट हैं अधिक आम in children, the रिस्क of विकासशील कर्कट generally increases with age.
In 2007, cancer caused about 13 % of all human deaths worldwide ( 7.9 लाख ).
Rates are rising as more people live to an old age and as mass lifestyle changes occur in the विकासशील संसार.
Spring ski touring on Hardangervidda, Norway
स्कीइंग is a recreational कार्यकलाप और प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in जिससे the भागीदार attaches long धावक or skis to बूट or जूते on the फीट और उपयोग उन्हें to सफर on शीर्ष of हिम.
Aside from recreation and competition, skiing has been used for military purposes and भी यात्राएं in areas that experience heavy snowfall.
अनेक प्रकार of प्रतिस्पर्धी स्कीइंग events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee, and the International Ski Federation.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) थी a अंग्रेजों अर्थशास्त्री जिनकी विचार have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics, and informed the economic policies of governments.
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of business cycles, and is widely considered to be one of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक macroeconomics और the सबसे influential अर्थशास्त्री of the 20th century.
His ideas are the basis for the स्कूल of विचार known as Keynesian economics, as well as its various offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th सदी अर्थशास्त्र can be viewed as either building on Keynes ' ideas or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking, overturning the older ideas of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि आयोजित कि free markets would, in the short to medium term, automatically provide full employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity, and that inadequate aggregate demand could सीसे to prolonged periods of high unemployment.
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of आर्थिक recessions and depressions.
Following the outbreak of the Second World War, keynes 's विचार concerning आर्थिक policy were adopted by leading Western economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as Baron Keynes of Tilton in the County of ससेक्स.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of keynesian अर्थशास्त्र resulted in लगभग सब capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems that began to afflict the anglo-american economies from the start of the decade, and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy.
however, the आगमन of the global financial crisis in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning लिये आर्थिक नीतियों undertaken in response to the crisis by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और influential लोगों of the 20th century, commenting that : `` His radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics Society, a director of the Bank of इंग्लैण्ड, a संरक्षक of the कला और an आर्ट कलेक्टर, a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals, an advisor to several charitable trusts, a writer, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue.
The Ten Commandments, also known as the Decalogue, are a set of biblical कानून relating to आचार और इबादत, जिससे खेल a fundamental role in Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
They include instructions to इबादत तभी परमेश्वर, to रखना the sabbath पावन and prohibitions against idolatry, blasphemy, murder, theft, deception and adultery.
Different groups follow slightly different traditions लिये interpreting और क्रमांकन them.
The Ten Commandments appear twice in the यहूदी बाइबल, in the किताबे of exodus और deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, परमेश्वर inscribed उन्हें on दो स्टोन टैबलेट, जिससे he दिया to Moses on Mount Sinai.
Modern स्कॉलरशिप रै मिला संभावित प्रभाव in hittite और mesopotamian laws and treaties, but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of चार स्टुडियो एल्बम, एक विस्तारित play ( EP ), one live album, ten compilation albums, twenty singles, one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade, Sire and WEA record labels.
The band थी formed in 1982 in मैनचेस्टर by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite होने championed by बीबीसी रेडियो 1 डिस्क jockey जॉन Peel, the band 's debut single, `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ), failed to chart.
Its follow-up, `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ), met with नाजुक acclaim और पहुँचे number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984, as they reached number twelve in the uk साथ the `` कया अंतर करता it मेक ? `` सिंगल और पहुँचे क्रमांक दो on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the uk, helping to consolidate their previous chart success.
The next स्टुडियो एल्बम, मांस is हत्या ( 1985 ), पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however, the only single to be released from the album, `` That Joke Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to break the UK Top 40.
returning to रूप, the smiths ' अगला छह singles सब पहुँचे the उच्चतर than number thirty in the UK and their third album, The Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ), reached number two in the UK.
Despite the band 's chart success, Marr left the group in August 1987 due to a strained संबंध with Morrissey.
Failing to find a replacement, The Smiths disbanded by the समय उनके फाइनल स्टुडियो album, Strangeways, Here We Come, was released in September that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's highest-charting release in the संयुक्त राज्य जब it पहुँचे क्रमांक fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In early 1992, WEA acquired the संपूर्ण वापस कैटलॉग of the smiths और उत्पादित two compilations – Best... I and... Best II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 और 2001, साथ a further compilation, The Sound of The Smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone with the Wind is a novel written by मार्गरेट मिशेल, first published in 1936.
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the ऐतिहासिक रोमांस novel.
However, it has been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and does not contain सब of the तत्व of the रोमांस genre, making it simply a historical novel.
the स्टोरी is नियत in Clayton County, Georgia, and Atlanta during the American Civil War and Reconstruction.
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण मालिक, जो जरूर उपयोग प्रत्येक अर्थात् at her disposal to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
मार्गरेट मिशेल began लिखने Gone with the Wind in 1926 to pass the time while recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an editor जो थी looking for new fiction, read what she had written and saw that it could be a best-seller.
After Latham agreed to publish the book, Mitchell worked for another six months checking the ऐतिहासिक सन्दर्भ, and rewrote the opening chapter several times.
Mitchell और उसके husband जॉन दलदल, a नक़ल editor by trade, edited the final version of the novel.
Mitchell wrote the book 's final पल पहला, और then wrote the events that led up to it.
As to what became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, after the novel ended, Mitchell did not know, and कहा, `` लिये सब i जान, रहेट may have मिला किसी else जो थी कम difficult. ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize लिये fiction लिये the book in 1937.
The book was adapted into a 1939 American film.
Gone with the Wind is the only novel by Mitchell प्रकाशित दौरान उसके lifetime.
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental specialties recognized by the American दंत संघ, royal कॉलेज of Dentists of Canada, and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons, and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth.
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly known as `` root canal therapy '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked दांत, और treating दंत trauma.
Root canal therapy is one of the सबसे आम procedures.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic ऊतक, and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured, endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth.
Serial संलग्न scsi ( sas ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that moves data to and from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives.
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) बस प्रौद्योगिकी that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, जैसे इसके पूर्ववर्ती, uses the standard SCSI command set.
SAS offers backward संगतता साथ second-generation SATA drives.
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be कनेक्ट to sas backplanes, but SAS drives can not connect to SATA backplanes.
The T10 technical कमेटी of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कमेटी लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी Standards ( INCITS ) develops and maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the constitutional प्रावधान as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the संयुक्त राज्य is एक of the पात्रता आवश्यकताएँ established in the United States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President.
इस आवश्यकता was intended to protect the nation from foreign influence.
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born नागरिक, और विभिन्न राय have महरूम offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
A 2011 Congressional Research Service रपट stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in गुजर in अनेक निर्णय of the संयुक्त राज्य परम् अदालत और निम्नतर न्यायालयों dealing साथ the सवाल of eligibility for citizenship by birth, but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` कर्ट '' warner ( born जून 22, 1971 ) is a former American football player.
He played क्वार्टरबैक लिये तीन नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) teams : the St. Louis Rams, the New York Giants, and the Arizona Cardinals.
He was originally signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent in 1994 after playing कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at उत्तरी आयोवा.
Warner would go on to be माना the बेहतरीन undrafted खिलाड़ी of सब समय, following a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL history.
Warner first attained स्टारडम जबकि playing लिये the st. लुई मेढ़ों इससे 1998 to 2003, जहाँ he जीती दो NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV.
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's first Super कटोरी berth ), और owns the तीन उच्चतम single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history.
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), और the third-highest career completion percentage in NFL history with 65.5 %.
In 13 करियर playoff खेल, warner बाँधने पहला all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5 % ), yards per attempt ( 8.55 ), and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the highest completion percentage for a single game during the regular season, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on September 20, 2009, against the Jacksonville jaguars.
He announced his retirement on January 29, 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born May 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त राज्य Senator from North Carolina, in office since January 2009.
previously वो परोसा in the North Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a member of the Democratic Party and is viewed as a मॉडरेट member of her party.
When Hagan पराजित रिपब्लिकन लाज़िम एलिज़ाबेथ Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election, she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election.
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the खिलाड़ी deemed the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी in collegiate football.
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's athletic director, John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College, Auburn University, Clemson University, Rice University, and the University of पेन्सिलवेनिया ; और फ़ुटबॉल, बास्केट, और बेसबॉल सिर कोच और athletic director at Georgia Tech ).
The पुरस्कार is प्रस्तुत by the heisman Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl games.
It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football, सहित the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार, वाल्टर शिविर Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player, while the Maxwell Award and वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी, और the आर्ची Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player.
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the multinational military forces supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and बाद the कोरियाई युद्ध.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद अपनाया रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 कॉलिंग on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted Resolution 83, recommending that members of the United Nations provide assistance to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the हथियारबंद आक्रमण और to restore अंतरराष्ट्रीय सलाम और security to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, अनुशंसित कि सदस्यों providing सैन्य शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता to दक्षिण कोरियाई `` make such forces and other assistance available to a unified command under the United States of America ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations forces '', and United Nations itself could be considered a belligerent, in practice the United Nations exercised no कंट्रोल over the कॉम्बैट शक्तियां, which were controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded that the forces अंतर्गत the unc यहूद नहीं in विधि संयुक्त राष्ट्र troops, and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of national armies, operating अंतर्गत the सामूहिक सही of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at बुसान to जुड़ें the unc, जिससे until then included only ROK and U.S. forces.
The 27th Brigade moved into the naktong River line west of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia, Belgian United Nations Command, Canada, Colombia, Ethiopia, फ़्रांस, यूनानियों, ध्वज, the नीदरलैंड्स, नई जीलैंड, the फिलीपीन, Thailand and Turkey.
The संघ of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी provided air units which fought alongside the air forces of other member nations.
Denmark, India, Norway, and स्वीडन provided medical units.
Italy provided a हॉस्पिटल, even though it was not a UN member.
The United Nations Command and the Chinese-North Korean Command signed the Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 जुलाई 1953, समाप्ति the heavy fighting.
The armistice agreement established the Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ), consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the दो signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by Panmumjon प्रतिनिधि under exclusive North Korean management.
Regular meetings have been stopped, हालांकि ड्यूटी अधिकारियों of संयुक्त सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly known as the Truce Village of Panmunjom, from each side meet regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton, a Mission Vista police officer who moves his family वापस to उसके बूढ़ा पड़ोस, lincoln हाइट्स, to प्रारंभ a नई जीवन and to help out his old neighborhood.
It is a dangerous place to उठाएँ a परिवार, और through the many trials the family goes through, they soon learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope साथ प्रत्येक दिन जीवन as a गली cop in Los Angeles, his kids try to fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors.
the दिखाएँ premiered January 8, 2007 on the ABC Family network with 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
It was approved for a दूसरी ऋतु, जिससे premiered September 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK था महरूम प्रयुक्त in a वाणिज्यिक to प्रचार the second season.
To promote the third season, they showed clips of Cassie and चार्ल्स 's relationship to the song, Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up, David Archuleta.
To प्रचार ऋतु 4, they 're using the song, Avalanche by Marie Digby.
The show 's theme song was written and performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter blaire Reinhard.
on जनवरी 29, 2010, ABC Family announced the cancellation of the series after four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
In the Orthodox tradition, churches हैं विभाजित प्रायः साथ जातीय और भाषाई लाइनों, into separate churches and traditions.
technically, विभाजन between एक group and another are defined by doctrine and church authority.
Issues such as the nature of Jesus, the authority of apostolic succession, eschatology, और papal primacy separate one denomination from another.
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members, over half of all Christians worldwide, making it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide ( although the church करता नहीं दृश्य itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide, and together the catholics, protestants, anglicans, और अन्य closely सम्बन्धित denominations comprise Western Christianity.
The Eastern परंपरागत गिरिजाघर, प्राच्य परंपरागत चर्च and the Assyrian Church of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations.
Western Christian denominations prevail in Western Europe और इसके पूर्व colonies.
Eastern Christian denominations are represented mostly in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, the Middle East and North Africa.
Christians have various doctrines परिचय the गिरिजाघर, the देह of वफादार कि they believe was established by Jesus Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and practices that they considered to be in उल्लंघन of their interpretation.
Generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as ईसाइयों, at तनिक to the extent कि वे have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
Since the reforms surrounding Vatican II, the Catholic Church has referred to Protestant communities as `` denominations '', जबकि reserving the पद `` गिरिजाघर '' लिये अपोस्टोलिक चर्च, सहित the पूर्वी परंपरागत ( देखिए subsistit in and branch theory ).
There are however some non-denominational Christians who do not follow any particular branch.
The panda ( ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from the unrelated रेड पांडा, is a भालू native to central-western and south western China.
It is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black patches around इसके आँखें, over the कानों, और आरपार इसके गोलाकार body.
Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the पांडा 's आहार is 99 % bamboo.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally खा अन्य grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, वे may प्राप्त मधु, eggs, fish, yams, shrub leaves, oranges, or bananas along with specially prepared food.
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China, mainly in सिचुआन प्रांत, but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
As a result of farming, deforestation and other development, the panda has been चलित आउट of the lowland क्षेत्रों जहाँ it एकबार lived.
The panda is a संरक्षण reliant endangered species.
a 2007 रपट shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country.
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild, while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the जंगली is on the rise.
However, the IUCN does not मानना वहीँ is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable.
While the dragon has often served as China 's national emblem, internationally the पांडा appears at तनिक as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely प्रयुक्त भीतर चीन in अंतरराष्ट्रीय contexts, for example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc Forster आधारित on the अनोखा of the वही नाम by खालिद hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning उसके dost हसन, the son of his father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military हस्तक्षेप, the द्रव्यमान exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States, and the Taliban regime.
Though most of the film is set in Afghanistan, these भाग यहूद ज़्यादातर शॉट in Kashgar, China, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in जमींदारी, साथ the शेष spoken in English.
The child actors are native speakers, but several adult actors था to सीख Dari.
Filming wrapped up on December 21, 2006, and the film was expected to be released on November 2, 2007.
However, बाद चिंता लिये the सुरक्षा of the यंग अभिनेताओं in the फिल्मी due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear, its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14, 2007.
The Kite धावक थी released on DVD on March 25, 2008.
A HD DVD release was announced for the same तिथि, लकिन थी रद्द following the format 's demise.
The film was मनोनीत लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये Best Foreign Language Film in 2007.
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias was nominated for Best Original स्कोर at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards.
The legality of कैनबिस varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law, जिससे governs persons in all states.
The medicinal उपयोग of कैनबिस is विधिक in a क्रमांक of countries, including Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, अलावा इससे the देशों कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, उपयोग, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस लिये recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation और a ठीक, बल्कि than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug न्यायालयों उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or बारंबार users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a अधिक restrictive direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many countries and have resulted in jail sentences और लोगों खोने उनके jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East एशिया और southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री of कैनबिस may सीसे to a वाक्य of life in prison or even execution.
Loxahatchee is a community located in ताड़ बीच County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest of royal ताड़ बीच, फ्लोरिडा और लगभग west of West Palm Beach.
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post दफ्तर कि serves इस क्षेत्रफल, which is under the zip code of 33470.
The name Loxahatchee means `` turtle river. ''
Loxahatchee is located within the भारतीय trails Improvement District and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control District.
Lion Country Safari, a drive-through safari पार्क, is स्तिथ in Loxahatchee.
In 2006, the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा स्वीकृत incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County.
The main reason for incorporating थी to better protect the area from encroaching growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood.
Perhaps the most rural area within a close proximity to West Palm Beach, साथ लॉट आकार range from 1-20 acres.
साथ साथ the acreage, it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native and exotic animal presence is quite notable.
Seminole Ridge High School serves the क्षेत्रफल.
The Canadian Citizenship परीक्षण is a परीक्षण, administered by नागरिकता और आव्रजन कनाडा ( CIC ), that is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship.
The test is available in both French and English, the official भाषाएं of कनाडा.
Renaissance Cruises, originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway, later खरीदा by एडवर्ड rudner ( संस्थापक of alamo car rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War.
They operated year-round क्रूज itineraries to the भूमध्यसागरीय, the Greek Isles, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Northern Europe and Scandinavia.
The company ceased operations on 25 September 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000.
While the कम्पनी था महरूम in ग़रीब financial health for quite some time, the economic decline resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line.
The fleet is सूचीबद्ध अंतर्गत List of cruise ships.
It was headquartered in फोर्ट lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is one of the four basic types of animal tissue, along with connective tissue, muscle tissue और बेचैन ऊतक.
epithelial ऊतकों लकीर the कैविटी and surfaces of structures throughout the body, and also form many glands.
Functions of epithelial cells शामिल स्राव, चयनात्मक अवशोषण, protection, transcellular transport and detection of sensation.
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) अर्थात् `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying संयोजी tissue, through the basement membrane.
Epithelia can also be व्यवस्थित into clusters of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands.
Kent E. Hovind ( born January 15, 1953 ) is an अमरीकी यंग धरती creationist.
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to मनाना श्रोता to अस्वीकृत theories of एवोल्यूशन, भूभौतिकी, और cosmology in favor of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by वैज्ञानिक प्रमाण और कुछ of उसके विचार have also been criticized by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis.
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at निजी स्कूलों और चर्च, debates, and on radio and television broadcasts.
Since January 2007, Hovind has been serving a ten-year prison sentence after being convicted of 58 federal counts, including 12 tax offenses, one count of obstructing संघीय एजेंटों, और 45 रिश्तो of structuring cash transactions.
He is incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution at Berlin, New Hampshire.
बहू साथ Bindi decorated forehead
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, small particle, dot '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil, Telugu, and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( विशेषकर इण्डिया, बांग्लादेश, नेपाल, श्री लंका और मॉरीशस ) और southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the forehead close to the eyebrows, लकिन it can भी consist of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location.
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of New York, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson, elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the running mate of former Governor Eliot Spitzer, chose नहीं to चलाएं लिये a full-term.
On November 2, New York Attorney General and Democrat एंड्रयू cuomo पराजित रिपब्लिकन कार्ल Paladino.
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the नई यॉर्क ग्रीन Party to be listed on the ballot for the next 4 years.
The main cast of Dragon बॉल at the समाप्त of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga and anime श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama.
The series takes place in a fictional universe, the same as Toriyama 's previous series Dr. Slump, and follows the adventures of martial artist Son Goku from childhood to adulthood as he खोज लिये the सात spheres ज्ञात as the ड्रैगन गेंदें, used to summon a wish-granting dragon.
During the course of the story, he encounters allies such as Bulma, Yamcha, Kuririn and Trunks, rivals such as Tenshinhan, Piccolo and vegeta, and enemies such as Freeza and Cell.
While many of the characters are humans with superhuman शक्ति and/or अलौकिक abilities, the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series also includes depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ, साथ अनेक characters being gods that govern the universe.
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of present day eastern New Mexico, southern कोलोराडो, northeastern एरिज़ोना, दक्षिणी कान्सास, सब of ओक्लाहोमा, और सबसे of उत्तरपश्चिम Texas.
The Comanche people are enrolled in the federally पहचाना Comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
Historically, the Comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches in the लेट 18th सदी.
Today, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal नामांकन संख्याएँ 15,191 साथ लगभग 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma.
The Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is held annually in walters, ओक्लाहोमा in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language, a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family, sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however, only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today.
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the Pulitzer Prize -winning अमरीकी लेखक Edith Wharton.
It is set in the fictitious town of starkfield, मैसाचुसेट्स.
The novel was adapted into a फिल्मी, ethan frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो स्तिथ in the Times Square neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York.
The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News ' Good morning America ( GMA ), a morning news and talk program and segments for GMA on ABC News Now.
The Las Vegas स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every country मगर क्यूबा और उत्तर कोरियाई.
It is produced by the coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is तब बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध साथ the company, produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise coca-cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest single coca-cola bottler in उत्तर America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और खाना सेवा वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks अंतर्गत the कोक ब्रांड name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola, आहार कोक Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
Types of bar-lines
In musical notation, a bar ( or measure ) is a segment of time defined by a given number of बीट्स, प्रत्येक of जिससे हैं आबंटित a particular नोट मान.
Dividing music into bars provides नियमित reference points to pin point locations within a piece of music.
it भी makes लिखा music easier to follow, since each bar of staff symbols can be read and played as a batch.
Typically, a piece consists of several bars of the same length, and in modern musical notation the number of beats in each bar is specified at the beginning of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note मान of the ताल ( the ताल रै a क्वार्टर नोट value in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more common in British English, and the word measure is more common in American अंग्रेज़ी, हालांकि संगीतकारों generally understand both usages.
In American English, although the words bar and measure are often प्रयुक्त interchangeably the सही उपयोग of the शब्द 'bar ' refers only to the vertical line itself, while the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally correct to बोलो of बार numbers and measure numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
साथ the वही lines, it is wise to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. लिये बीट्स तभी ; बार should be referred to by name in full.
The पहला metrically complete measure within a piece of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins with an anacrusis ( an अधूरी माप at the head of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since प्राचीन टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
सौर technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active सौर तकनीकों शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
ये लाभ are global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Primary care may be provided in जातियाँ health centres.
Primary परवाह is the स्वास्थ्य care given by a health care provider.
Typically this provider acts as the प्रिंसिपल पाइंट of परामर्श for patients within a health care system and coordinates other specialists that the patient may need.
Such a professional can be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or परिवार चिकित्सक, or depending on the मोहल्ले, स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली संगठन, और रोगी 's discretion, they may see a pharmacist, a physician assistant, a nurse practitioner, a nurse ( such as in the United Kingdom ), a clinical officer ( such as in parts of Africa ), or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the nature of the health condition, patients may तब be referred लिये द्वितीयक or tertiary care.
`` Ocean एवेन्यू '' is a song recorded by American pop punk group Yellowcard.
It थी released in फ़रवरी 2004 as the second single from Ocean Avenue and the third track.
It is known for bringing them into the mainstream, as it प्राप्त numerous spins on एमटीवी और increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds निकट उनके ऊँची स्कूल, डगलस एंडरसन School of the Arts, and another street mentioned in the song, Cherry Street.
The name of Ocean Avenue in Jacksonville is दरअसल बीच boulevard.
They बाएँ their original base behind when they moved to Los Angeles.
the सोंग थी प्रदर्शित on the Much Music compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9.
A psychiatrist is a physician who specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the उपचार of mental disorders.
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct physical examinations, order and interpret laboratory tests, use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as computed टोमोग्राफी ( ct/cat स्कैन ), चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग ( mri ), और positron उत्सर्जन टोमोग्राफी ( पालतु ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World Health संगठन 's ( जो ) परिभाषा of स्वास्थ्य as a राज्य of पूरा शारीरिक, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life.
Reproductive health, therefore, implies that people are able to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex life और कि वे have the काबिलियत to reproduce और the स्वतंत्रता to decide if, जब और कैसा प्रायः to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of birth control ; also access to appropriate health care services of sexual, reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through गर्भावस्था और प्रसव could provide युगल साथ the बेहतरीन मौका of having a healthy infant.
On the other hand individuals do face inequalities in reproductive स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic औकात, शिक्षा level, age, ethnicity, religion, and resources available in their environment.
It is possible for example, that low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to know what is appropriate लिये maintaining reproductive health.
According to the WHO, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the global बोझ of ill-health लिये महिलाओं, और 14 % for men. ''
Reproductive स्वास्थ्य is a भाग of Sexual and reproductive health and rights.
This is a list of episodes for the Disney चैनल असली श्रेणी the सुइट जीवन on डेक, जिससे aired लिये तीन seasons on Disney Channel from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a दायरा of इंटेल 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single-, dual-, and quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture.
The single- और dual-core मॉडल हैं single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise two dies, each containing two cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market, and reunified laptop and desktop CPU lines, which previously था महरूम विभाजित into the pentium 4, pentium D, and Pentium M brands.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the Solo ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), क्वाड ( quad-core ), and in 2007, the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology ( designed लिये व्यवसायों ) शामिल the dual-core and quad-core branches.
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ), the उच्चतम स्तर of पेशेवर अमरीकी football in the United States, culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year.
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to identify each game, rather than the year in which it is held.
For example, Super Bowl I was played on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 regular ऋतु, जबकि सुपर कटोरी xlvii थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL और इसके then-rival लीग, the अमरीकी Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play in an AFL–NFL World Championship खेल जबतक the विलय was to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each league was redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन ``, और the खेल थी तब played between the conference champions.
Currently, the National फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) लीड the series with 25 wins to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ).
The day on which the Super Bowl is played, now considered by some a de facto American national holiday, is पुकारा `` सुपर कटोरी Sunday ``.
It is the second-largest day लिये u.S. खाना खपत, after Thanksgiving Day.
In addition, the Super Bowl has frequently been the सबसे देखी अमरीकी टेलीविज़न ब्रॉडकास्ट of the year.
Super Bowl XLV, played in 2011, became the most-watched American television program in history, आरेखण an औसत दर्शक of 111 लाख दर्शक और लेने over the स्पॉट held by the previous year 's Super Bowl, which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world, almost all being North American audiences, and is second to association football ’s यूईएफए champions लीग फाइनल as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide.
Because of its high viewership, commercial airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the साल.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the Super Bowl, कंपनियाँ regularly develop उनके सबसे expensive advertisements for this broadcast.
As a result, watching and discussing the broadcast 's commercials रै become a significant aspect of the event.
In addition, many popular singers and musicians have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure.
फिओना is a feminine given name.
The name Fiona was invented, and first used, by the Scottish poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ), लेखक of the ossian कविताएं, जिससे he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources, when challenged, he never produced ).
The नाम थी subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ), who authored several romantic works under the name `` Fiona Macleod ''.
The नाम रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय in England, Scotland and Ireland.
The नाम is माना to be a Latinised form of the Gaelic word fionn, meaning `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name Fiona is also sometimes प्रयुक्त as an anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona, although these names are otherwise unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the authentic Scottish Gaelic feminine name Fionnghal साथ फिओना.
The name Fiona is rising in लोकप्रियता विशेषकर in German -speaking countries.
Fiona was the 49th most popular name for baby लड़कियों born in 2008 in जर्मनी.
Fiona was tied for third place in the ranking of most popular names for baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the United States in 2008, where it has ranked among the top 1,000 सबसे लोकप्रिय names लिये लड़कियों चूंकि 1990 और among the शीर्ष 500 since 1999.
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for लड़कियों of एशियाई or प्रशांत islander descent in नई यॉर्क City, where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have been used in the United States.
The सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त language is English.
There are also many languages indigenous to North America or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; several languages, सहित creoles और चिह्न भाषाएं, have भी विकसित in the United States.
Approximately 337 भाषाएं हैं बोला or हस्ताक्षरित by the जनसांख्यिकी, of which 176 are indigenous to the area.
Fifty-two languages formerly बोला in the country 's territory are now extinct.
The किस्में of अंग्रेज़ी spoken in the United States is known as American English.
English is the de facto नेशनल भाषा of the United States, with 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother tongue, and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well ''.
However, no official भाषा exists at the federal level.
There have been several proposals to make अंग्रेज़ी the नेशनल भाषा in amendments to immigration reform bills, but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels, with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure capacity, others adopting English alone, others officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं, और स्टिल अन्य adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the दूसरी सबसे आम language in the country, and is spoken by over 12 % of the population.
The United States holds the world 's fifth largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by Mexico, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United States, long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of more recent Hispanophone immigrants.
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in English, nearly all second-generation हिस्पैनिक अमेरिकी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी धड़ल्ले, while only about half still speak Spanish.
According to the 2000 US census, people of German ancestry मेक up the largest single ethnic group in the United States, and the German language ranks fifth.
Italian, पॉलिश, और फ्रेंच हैं स्टिल widely बोला among populations descending from immigrants from those countries in the early 20th century, but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die.
Russian is also बोला by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each in the United राज्य, लगभग entirely भीतर recent immigrant populations.
Both languages, along with the varieties of the Chinese language, Japanese, and कोरियाई, हैं अभी प्रयुक्त in चुनावों in अलास्का, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in smaller pockets of the country, but these populations are decreasing, and the languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few native speakers, is an official language along साथ अंग्रेज़ी at the state level in Hawaii.
The राज्य government of Louisiana offers services and documents in French, as does New Mexico in Spanish.
Besides English, Spanish, French, जर्मनी, navajo और अन्य Native American languages, all other languages are usually learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand Am Sedan फेंडर और क्वार्टर panel
On an automobile, a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known in British English ) is usually माना the देह फलक जिससे goes between the पश्च द्वार और the ट्रंक and typically wraps around the wheel well ; however, the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; हालांकि, this varies with different makes and models.
A quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the uni-body structure or Monocoque.
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel typically requires it to be काटें बंद the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this ऊँची राशि of specialized मजदूर, a क्वार्टर panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface.
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated, in print only, shrops ) is a काउंटी in the वेस्ट मिडलैंड्स region of England.
It borders Wales to the वेस्ट, चेशायर to the north, Staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south.
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009, taking over from the पिछला काउंटी परिषद और 5 ज़िला councils, और कवर सबसे of the county.
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has been a separate एकात्मक प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 लकिन continues to be included in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury, which is culturally और historically महत्वपूर्ण और is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of the county ; Telford, a new town in the east which was constructed around a number of older towns, most notably Wellington, Dawley and Madeley, which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the south.
The county has many further market towns, including Whitchurch in the north, न्यूपोर्ट बस to the north-east of telford, और मार्केट drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, covering ironbridge, coalbrookdale और a भाग of Madeley.
There are, additionally, other notable historic industrial sites located around the county, ऐसे as at shrewsbury, broseley, Snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding प्राकृतिक सौंदर्य कवर परिचय a quarter of the county, mainly in the south.
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties, with the population density of the Shropshire Council क्षेत्रफल होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in the काउंटी, though the highest hills are the Clee Hills, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
Wenlock Edge is another significant भौगोलिक और geological landmark.
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's, Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve, one of the most important और बेहतरीन preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, Great Britain 's longest river, runs through the county, exiting into वॉस्टरशायर via the Severn Valley.
Shropshire is landlocked, and with an क्षेत्रफल of, is इंग्लैण्ड 's largest अंतर्देशीय county.
The county पुष्प is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat purposes, the county ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ), together with the authorities covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : कुणाल नय्यर, साइमन helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory, created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on सीबीएस on सितंबर 24, 2007.
The show centers on पाँच वर्ण : roommates शेल्डन कूपर and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), जो joins the समूह बाद होने matched to शेल्डन on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, कार्यशील इससे 1983 to 1987, परिचय a fictional group of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune, while on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit ``.
A feature film based on the series थी released by 20th सदी Fox on June 11, 2010.
A comic book series, A-Team : Shotgun Wedding, began कूच 9, 2010.
Diana Prince is a fictional अक्षर appearing regularly in कहानियां published by DC Comics.
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Wonder स्त्री.
The अक्षर थी निर्मित by चार्ल्स Moulton and Harry G. Peter.
Wat Phra Kaew, बैंकॉक, थाईलैंड
There is no official state religion in the Thai constitution, which guarantees religious freedom for all Thai citizens, हालांकि the किंग is जरूरी by law to be Buddhist.
According to the last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of thais हैं बौद्धों of the थेरवाद tradition.
Muslims are the second largest religious group in थाईलैंड at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, Yala, narathiwat और भाग of songkhla chumphon have dominant Muslim populations, consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay.
The southern tip of थाईलैंड is ज़्यादातर जातीय Malays.
Christians, mainly catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also live in the देश 's शहरों, और हैं heavily engaged in retail commerce.
वहीँ is भी a छोटी यहूदी जातियाँ in Thailand, dating back to the 17th century.
Since 2001, Muslim activists, generally described by the Thai government as आतंकवादी or separatists, have rallied against the central government because of alleged corruption and ethnic bias on the part of officials.
Thailand 's Department of Religion, currently under the Ministry of Culture, is formally responsible for the registration of religious groups in थाईलैंड url_http जिससे थाम गुण through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, along with the Immigration Police, over the work permits of प्रचारकों who are `` expatriate religious workers '' of all religions.
A value added tax ( VAT ) is a रूप of खपत tax.
From the perspective of the खरीदार, it is a tax on the purchase price.
From that of the seller, it is a tax only on the value added to a उत्पाद, सामग्री, or सेवा, from an accounting point of view, by this stage of its manufacture or distribution.
The निर्माता remits to the सरकारी the difference between these two amounts, and retains the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the inputs.
The value added to a उत्पाद by or साथ a business is the sale price charged to its customer, minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a sales tax in that ultimately तभी the समाप्त उपभोक्ता is taxed.
It differs from the sales tax in that, with the latter, the tax is collected and remitted to the सरकारी तभी एकबार, at the point of purchase by the end consumer.
With the VAT, collections, remittances to the government, and credits for taxes already paid occur each समय a कारोबार in the सप्लाई कड़ी purchases products.
A referee calling a high-sticking penaltyhigh
-sticking is the नाम of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or her stick above the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal.
This can result in a stoppage of play or in a दंड.
In the rules of the National Hockey League, high-sticking is defined as a दंड in नियम 60 और as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
A stoppage in play results if a high stick आता in सम्पर्क साथ the पक और the team who touched it regains control of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a player touches the puck with a high stick and the opposing टोली gains कंट्रोल of the puck.
If the puck goes into the opposing जाल बाद coming into सम्पर्क with a high stick, the goal is disallowed.
The level at which a stick is considered too ऊँची लिये a लक्ष्य is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a player knocks the puck into his own net साथ a ऊँची स्टिक, the goal is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another player with a high stick.
The खिलाड़ी is दिए a नाबालिग दंड जबतक उसके ऊँची stick caused an injury, in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
It is the referee 's discretion जिससे दंड to assess : the rule calls for a double minor for an accidental injury, or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ).
Injury is usually decided by the high stick causing bleeding, but the presence of blood करता नहीं automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the उपस्थिति of रक्त if the रेफरी determines कि the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
Typical modern memory कार्ड रीडर, संगत with many common formats
A memory card reader is a device, typically having a usb इंटरफ़ेस, लिये accessing the आंकड़ा on a memory card such as a CompactFlash ( CF ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
Most card पाठक भी प्रस्ताव write capability, and together with the card, this can function as a pen drive.
Some printers and personal कंप्यूटर have a built-in card reader.
A multi कार्ड रीडर is प्रयुक्त लिये communication with more than one type of flash memory card.
Multi card readers do not have built-in मेमोरी क्षमता, लकिन हैं समर्थ to accept multiple types and styles of memory cards.
The number of compatible memory cards varies from reader to रीडर और can include more than 20 different types.
The number of different memory cards that a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted, such as 35-in-1.
वहीँ हैं तीन categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the card slots : single card reader ( e.g. 1x SD-only ), multi card reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g. 4x SD only ).
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB functions do not need the card reader, such as the बुद्धिमान स्टिक memory card, which can plug directly into a USB slot.
the usb device class used is 0x08.
Bullying is detrimental to students ' well-being और विकास.
Bullying is the उपयोग of force or coercion to abuse or intimidate others.
The behavior can be habitual and involve an असंतुलन of social or physical power.
It can include verbal harassment or threat, physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims, शायद on grounds of रेस, धर्म, लिंग, कामुकता, or ability.
If धमकाना is किया by a group, it is called mobbing.
The victim of धमकाना is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
Bullying can be पारिभाषित in many different ways.
The UK currently has no legal definition of bullying, while some u.S. राज्य have कानून against it.
Bullying consists of तीन मौलिक प्रकार of abuse – emotional, verbal, and physical.
It typically involves subtle methods of coercion such as intimidation.
धमकाना सीमाएँ from simple one-on-one bullying to more complex bullying in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities.
Bullying in school and the workplace is भी referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed bullying in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of rankism.
A bullying culture can develop in any कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे human beings interact with each other.
This includes school, church, family, the workplace, home, and पड़ोस.
Happy slapping in the instituto क्षेत्रीय Federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4, 2007, in Austin, Texas, after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush during announcement of the future opening of the टेक्सास क्षेत्रीय दफ्तर of the नेशनल बीच for Missing and Exploited Children.
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a result of an एम्बर चेतावनी जब वो थी 8 सप्ताह बूढ़ा in नवम्बर 1998.
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE ) is a child abduction alert system originating in 1996, अभी employed in 9 देशों.
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing : प्रसारण आपात जवाब, नामित for Amber Hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington, Texas in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia, `` Levi 's Call '' ( नामित बाद लेवी frady ) ; in Hawaii, `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; and Arkansas, `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ).
AMBER Alerts are वितरित via वाणिज्यिक रेडियो स्टेशन, अंतरजाल रेडियो, उपग्रह रेडियो, टेलीविज़न stations, and cable TV by the Emergency Alert System and NOAA Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition signs, the LED billboards which are located बाहर of नए walgreens स्थितियाँ, साथ साथ the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google and Facebook to relay information regarding an एम्बर चेतावनी to an कभी growing demographic.
Those interested in subscribing to प्राप्त एम्बर चेतावनियाँ in उनके क्षेत्रफल via SMS messages can visit Wireless Amber Alerts, which are offered by law as free messages.
in कुछ states, the display scrollboards in front of lottery terminals are also used.
The निर्णय to घोषित an एम्बर चेतावनी is बना by प्रत्येक पुलिस organization ( in many cases, the state police or highway patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions.
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee, a description of the suspected abductor, और a वर्णन and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed fantasy novels by अमरीकी लेखक P. C. डाल और उसके daughter Kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of zoey redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The series has been on the New York Times Best विक्रेता सूची लिये 63 सप्ताह और there are over seven million copies in print in North America alone.
The sixth novel, Tempted, which went on sale on October 27, 2009 with a first मुद्रण of a लाख नक़ल, डाला the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
In January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a German translation of Marked, reached the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list.
The series has so far sold more than ten million किताबे in 39 देशों.
Burned was released on April 27, 2010, and like Tempted, it entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
Awakened, released in January, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
The series, which is published by St Martin 's Press is planned to शामिल twelve books.
In 2008, plans for a film अनुकूलन यहूद भी घोषित.
the दसवाँ किताब in the श्रेणी, Hidden, was released on October 16, 2012.
The second book in the novellas ( जिससे दे पृष्ठभूमि on supporting वर्ण ), Lenobia 's Vow, was released January 31, 2012.
Book eleven is currently called Revealed, and the Casts have announced that two more novellas, Neferet’s Curse, planned to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged against the city of Troy by the achaeans ( यूनानियों ) बाद पेरिस of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek साहित्य, सबसे notably through होमर 's इलियड और the Odyssey.
The Iliad relates a part of the last साल of the siege of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a साईकिल of एपिक कविताएं, which have survived through fragments.
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and अन्य works of यूनानी literature, and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid.
The war originated from a quarrel between the देवियाँ एथेना, hera, और aphrodite, बाद eris, the देवी of strife and discord, gave them a golden apple, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the goddesses to पेरिस, जो judged that Aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', should receive the apple.
in एक्सचेंज, aphrodite made Helen, the most beautiful of all women and wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband Menelaus, led an expedition of achaean सैनिकों to ट्रॉय and besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many heroes, including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax, and the ट्रोजन्स हेक्टर और पेरिस, the नगर गिरी to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as स्लेव ) और desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods ' wrath.
Few of the Achaeans returned safely to उनके homes and many founded colonies in distant shores.
The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas, one of the ट्रोजन्स, who was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical event that had लिया प्लेस in the 13th or 12th सदी bc, और believed कि Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, दोनो the युद्ध और the city were widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the जर्मनी archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars.
Whether there is any historical reality पीछे the trojan युद्ध is an खोलें सवाल.
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the tale, though this may simply mean that the Homeric stories are a संलयन of विभिन्न किस्से of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age.
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC, often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194–1184 BC, जिससे roughly corresponds साथ archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa.
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their cause, including most prominently the circle-A and the black flag, although anarchists have historically largely अस्वीकृत the महत्व of प्रतीकों to political movement.
Since the revival of anarchism around the start of the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization movement, anarchist cultural symbols are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery, vein, and nerve between the pterygopalatine fossa और the oral cavity.
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and summer from the European Centre for medium-range मौसम forecasts
The जलवायु of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the whole of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature ever अंकित on the मैदान on Earth : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station.
It is also extremely dry ( technically a मरुस्थल ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of precipitation per year.
Even so, on most parts of the continent the snow rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial बर्फ कि makes up the ice sheet.
Weather fronts rarely घुस दूर into the महाद्वीप.
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF ) with very cold, generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout the साल and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) with a short summer averaging ऊपर जमने, और much उच्चतर वर्षण.
Current head coach Mike Tomlin, दौरान the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has had 16 head coaches throughout इसके history.
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in, the name was changed to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the नगर 's विरासत of producing steel.
Joe Bach served two separate terms as head coach and Walt kiesling परोसा तीन separate terms.
During the and seasons, due to the amount of players who fought in World War II, the Steelers संयुक्त उनके टोली साथ फिलाडेल्फिया and Chicago, respectively.
दौरान ये सीज़न, स्टीलर्स ' कोच वॉल्ट kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy Neale and Phil Handler, who have not been included within this list.
Struggling लिये much of the मताधिकार 's जल्दी सालो, the टोली 's पहला ऋतु with more wins than losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in.
In, under Sutherland, the स्टीलर्स निभाई उनके first playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their entire पेशेवर कोचिंग करियर साथ the मताधिकार, including John McNally, Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll, who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of only four men to coach the same team for 23 years, चक noll रिटायर्ड in.
Noll is also the तभी coach in National Football League history to win four Super Bowls.
Bill Cowher, Noll 's बदलना, coached the स्टीलर्स to their fifth Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth सुपर कटोरी जीत आए in सुपर कटोरी XLIII, while head coached by Mike Tomlin, the team 's current head coach.
In criminal law, fraud is intentional deception made for personal gain or to क्षति another individual ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
धोखाधड़ी is a अपराधों और a civil law violation, though the specific criminal law definition varies by legal jurisdiction.
defrauding लोगों or entities of धन or valuables is a common purpose of fraud.
A hoax also involves deception, but without the इरादे of लाभ or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil action लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध or विशिष्ट performance of a contract.
Fraud is a आधार for equitable jurisdiction.
Passover, or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah, Pesakh, Yiddish : Peysekh, Paysakh, Paysokh ) is an महत्वपूर्ण biblically -derived यहूदी festival.
historically, साथ साथ shavuot ( `` पेंटेकोस्ट '' ) और sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ), Passover is one of the three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem.
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim, but तभी मेन participate in पब्लिक worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts for either सात दिनों ( in इसराईल ) or आठ दिनों ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk, thus the first day of Passover only begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of nisan और ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence साथ the passover seder जब the 15th of Nisan has begun.
In the उत्तरी गोलार्ध passover takes प्लेस in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is एक of the सबसे widely observed Jewish holidays.
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 सालो पहले by परमेश्वर इससे गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र that was ruled by the Pharaohs, and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses.
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew Bible especially in the किताब of exodus, in जिससे the israelites यहूद freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the narrative of the Exodus, the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient उन्होंने पहले the pharaoh होता रिलीज उसके israelite स्लेव ; the दसवाँ और worst of the plagues थी the मौत of the Egyptian first-born.
The Israelites were instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of उनके घरों with the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and, upon seeing this, the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the holiday.
There is some debate over जहाँ the पद is actually derived from.
When the pharaoh freed the israelites, it is said that they left in such a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
In commemoration, for the अवधि of passover no leavened bread is eaten, for which reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread ''.
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened ब्रैड ) is खाया during Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday.
हैली 's धूमकेतु or धूमकेतु हैली ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth, and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter और अधिक spectacular, लकिन होगा appear तभी once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were बना by चाइनीज, babylonian, और medieval European chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the भीतरी Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, और कि तभी a छोटी portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is विपक्ष to communism.
Organized anti-communism developed in reaction to the rise of communism, especially after the 1917 अक्तूबर क्रान्ति in रूस और reaching global dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists reject the concept of historical materialism, which is a central idea in Marxism.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that capitalism will be followed by socialism and साम्यवादी, बस as सामंतवाद was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist अर्जी कि the समाजवादी राज्य will `` wither away '' when it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society.
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of Bolshevik rule, while not as extreme as that during Joseph Stalin 's rule, was still severe by reasonable standards, citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret police, which eliminated numerous राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वियों by extrajudicial executions, और the क्रूर crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism, seeing समानता between the क्रियाएँ of कम्युनिस्ट and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was responsible लिये tens of लाखो of मौतों दौरान the 20th सदी.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have आइये to शक्ति have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition.
These opponents claim that most Communist countries have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's socialist stage of अर्थव्यवस्था to an आदर्श कम्युनिस्ट stage.
Rather, Communist सरकारें have महरूम अभियुक्त of creating a new ruling class ( a Nomenklatura ), with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes.
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer.
He was the first black player to play for Scottish club Celtic, and was the father of कवि और संगीतकार Gil Scott-Heron.
He died in Detroit of a दिल आक्रमण on 27 November 2008.
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( glycine अधिकतम ) is a प्रजाति of legume native to East Asia, widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous uses.
The plant is classed as an oilseed बल्कि than a pulse by the UN Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of protein for animal feeds and many prepackaged meals ; सोया सब्ज़ी आयल is another उत्पाद of processing the soybean crop.
For example, soybean products such as textured सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन ( tvp ) are ingredients in many meat and dairy analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly more protein per acre than most other उपयोग of जमीन.
परंपरागत nonfermented खाना उपयोग of soybeans include soy milk, and from the latter tofu and tofu skin.
Fermented भोजन include soy sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others.
The oil is प्रयुक्त in अनेक industrial applications.
The main producers of soy are the United States ( 35 % ), ब्राज़ील ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
Harrison Ford ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an अमरीकी फिल्मी actor and producer.
He is famous for his performances as Han Solo in the असली स्टार युद्धों त्रयी और the title character of the Indiana Jones film series.
Ford is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as रिक deckard in ब्लेड धावक, John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger.
His career has spanned six decades and शामिल भूमिकाएँ in अनेक हॉलीवुड blockbusters, सहित Presumed Innocent, The Fugitive, Air Force One, and What Lies Beneath.
At one point, four of the top six box-office hits of all समय शामिल एक of his roles.
Five of his films have been inducted into the National फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री.
In 1997, Ford was ranked No. 1 in Empire `` The Top 100 फिल्म सितारों of सब समय '' list.
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's films total over us $ 3.5 अरब, साथ विश्वव्यापी grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
घाट is the husband of actress Calista Flockhart.
a ट्यूब of ChapStick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by Pfizer उपभोक्ता healthcare and used in many countries worldwide.
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips ; hence the नाम.
Many varieties also include sunscreen in अनुक्रम to prevent sunburn.
Due to its popularity, the term has become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क.
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और लागू in the वही manner as lipstick.
However, the term is still a registered ट्रेडमार्क, साथ rights exclusively owned by Pfizer.
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom, the product 's main competitor is Lypsyl, बना by novartis उपभोक्ता स्वास्थ्य, जिससे is वितरित in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop Berkeley ( बिशप of cloyne ), थी an anglo-irish पारस जिनकी primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends that familiar objects like tables and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, और as a परिणाम can नहीं मौजूद बगैर being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, for physical वस्तुएँ `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ).
बर्कली is also known for his critique of abstraction, an important premise in his argument for immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published his first major work,, in which he discussed the सीमाएं of इंसान दृष्टि और उन्नत the सिद्धान्त कि the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but light and colour.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which, after its poor reception, he rewrote in dialogue रूप और प्रकाशित अंतर्गत the शीर्षक तीन संवाद between hylas और Philonous in 1713.
In this book, Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of mind ' ), while Hylas ( Greek : 'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents, in particular John Locke.
Berkeley argued against Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of absolute space, time और गति in de मोटू ( on Motion ), published 1721.
His arguments were a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published alciphron, a ईसाई क्षमाप्रार्थी विरूद्ध the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he प्रकाशित the Analyst, an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the development of mathematics.
His last major philosophical कार्य, siris ( 1744 ), begins by वकालत the medicinal use of tar water, and then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including science, philosophy, and theology.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th सदी ऐसे as the समस्याएं of बोध, the अंतर between primary and secondary qualities, and the importance of language.
Qingdao ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a major city in eastern Shandong province, Eastern China, with a जनसांख्यिकी of over 8.715 लाख ( 2010 census ).
Its built up क्षेत्रफल, बना of 6 शहरी जिले and 4 county-level cities, is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010.
It borders Yantai to the northeast, Weifang to the वेस्ट और rizhao to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
Qīng ( ) in Chinese means `` green '' or `` lush '', जबकि dǎo ( ) अर्थात् `` island ''.
चिंगदाओ is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea, चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख seaport, नवल base, and industrial centre.
It is also the साईट of the tsingtao Brewery.
The world 's longest sea bridge, the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge, links the main urban area of Qingdao with Huangdao ज़िला, straddling the jiaozhou खाड़ी समुद्र areas.
Qingdao is named China 's सबसे livable city.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ), or is a समूह of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ).
In colloquial speech, APMV is more commonly referred to as just `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis was described, it had the largest capsid व्यास of सब known viruses.
Mimivirus has a large and complex genome compared with most other viruses.
Mimivirus, छोटी लिये `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to reflect its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between the लोगों of मैक्सिको and the Spanish colonial authorities which started on September 16, 1810.
The गति, जिससे became ज्ञात as the मैक्सिकन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, was led by Mexican-born Spaniards, Mestizos and Amerindians who sought independence from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their colonial masters, but ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents.
Crohn 's disease, also known as Crohn सिंड्रोम और क्षेत्रीय enteritis, is a प्रकार of जलन bowel disease that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be continuous ), or weight loss, but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract ऐसे as स्किन rashes, arthritis, inflammation of the eye, tiredness, and lack of concentration.
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological and बैक्टीरियल कारकों in genetically susceptible individuals.
This परिणाम in a दीर्घकालिक जलन विकार, in जिससे the body 's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in the पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं have वर्णित it as an immune deficiency state.
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease, primarily with variations of the NOD2 जीन और इसके प्रोटीन, जिससे होश बैक्टीरियल cell walls.
Siblings of affected individuals हैं at higher risk.
Males and females are equally प्रभावित.
Smokers are दो टाइम्स अधिक संभावित to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 और 600,000 people in North America.
Prevalence estimates लिये उत्तरी Europe have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another शिखर incidence in the fifties to seventies, although the disease can occur at any age.
There is no ज्ञात फार्मास्युटिकल or surgical cure for Crohn 's disease.
उपचार विकल्प हैं प्रतिबंधित to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, and preventing relapse.
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn, who, in 1932, together with two other colleagues at माउंट sinai हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क, वर्णित a श्रेणी of मरीजों साथ सूजन of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an incomplete list of the tallest इमारतें और structures by country.
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures लिये प्रत्येक देश, and where appropriate, it also points to more detailed country-specific lists.
Rough and Ready is a census-designated प्लेस in नेवाडा County, California, United States.
It is located west of Grass Valley, California, लगभग 62 मील ( 100 km ) from Sacramento.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 963 at the 2010 census.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, created by three former PayPal employees in February 2005, on which users can upload, view and share videos.
The company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses Adobe Flash वीडियो और html5 प्रौद्योगिकी to प्रदर्शक a चौड़ी किस्में of user-generated वीडियो सामग्री, सहित फिल्म क्लिप्स, tv क्लिप्स, और म्यूज़िक वीडियो, as well as amateur content such as video blogging, short original videos, and educational videos.
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals, although media corporations including CBS, the BBC, Vevo, Hulu, और अन्य संगठन प्रस्ताव कुछ of उनके सामग्री via the site, as part of the YouTube partnership program.
Unregistered users can watch videos, while registered users can अपलोड an असीमित क्रमांक of वीडियो.
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content are available only to registered users at तनिक 18 सालो बूढ़ा.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC was bought by Google for US $ 1.65 अरब, और operates as a subsidiary of Google.
Sister Act is a musical written by cheri steinkellner और विधेयक steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त book material by Douglas Carter Beane, with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 film comedy of the same name.
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage Entertainment, Whoopi Goldberg, और माइकल रेनो लिये सिस Acts LLC.
Goldberg is भी a producer of the 2011 Broadway adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces ( APIs ) for handling tasks सम्बन्धित to मल्टीमीडिया, विशेषकर खेल प्रोग्रामिंग और video, on Microsoft platforms.
Originally, the names of ये api सब began साथ सीधा, ऐसे as direct3d, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
The name DirectX was coined as shorthand term for all of these APIs ( the X standing in लिये the particular api names ) और जल्द became the नाम of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console, the X was used as the basis of the name Xbox to indicate that the console was आधारित on डाइरेक्टएक्स प्रौद्योगिकी.
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of api designed लिये the एक्सबॉक्स ऐसे as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video games for Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Xbox, microsoft एक्सबॉक्स 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other तन्त्र अनुप्रयोग लिये कल्पना and graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM engineering.
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX, it is common to see the names `` डाइरेक्टएक्स '' और `` direct3d '' प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable शब्दकोष रूप, साथ with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding.
Originally, the runtimes यहूद तभी installed by games or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 did not लॉन्च साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, लकिन डाइरेक्टएक्स was included with Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2.
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, as रै every version of Windows released since.
The SDK is उपलब्धियाँ as a free download.
While the runtimes are proprietary, closed-source software, source code is provided for most of the SDK samples.
starting साथ the रिलीज of Windows 8 Developer Preview, DirectX SDK has been integrated into Windows SDK.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 हैं तभी उपलब्धियाँ लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा और नए क्युकी प्रत्येक of these new versions was built to depend upon the new Windows Display Driver Model that was introduced for Windows Vista.
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics hardware for various अनुप्रयोग और services like the Desktop Window Manager.
Quetzaltenango, also commonly known by इसके स्वदेशी नाम, xelajú, or more commonly, Xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
It is दोनो the पूंजी of Quetzaltenango Department and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It रै an अनुमानित population of 224,703.
The population is about 61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European.
quetzaltenango is स्तिथ in a mountain valley at an elevation of 2,330 meters ( 7,655 ft ) above sea level at its lowest part.
It may पहुँचें ऊपर 2,400 meters within the city.
The Municipality of Quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
Municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá, Cantel, Almolonga, Zunil, El palmar, concepción chiquirichapa, सैन mateo, la Esperanza, Olintepeque, and San Andrés Xecul.
All these municipalities are part of the Department of quetzaltenango, मगर सैन आन्द्रेस xecul which is a part of the Department of Totonicapán.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री लिये a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` बूढ़ा babylonian '' संस्करण, dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' संस्करण तिथियाँ इससे the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of लगभग दो तिहाई of इस longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
the स्टोरी centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a जंगली man निर्मित by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they journey to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven, which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके advances.
As a punishment for these क्रियाएँ, the gods sentence Enkidu to death.
The second हाफ of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of eternal life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
He learns that `` the जीवन कि तुम हैं seeking you will never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to him death, but life they retained in उनके own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame जिया on बाद उसके मौत, क्युकी of his great building projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The स्टोरी रै महरूम अनूदित into many different languages, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There are numerous debates over who निर्मित the पहला वीडियो खेल, साथ the जवाब depending largely on how video games are defined.
The evolution of वीडियो खेल represents a उलझे वेब of several different industries, including scientific, computer, arcade, and consumer electronics.
The `` video '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
With the popular catch phrase use of the term `` video game '', the term now implies all प्रदर्शक प्रकार, स्वरुप, और प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by बजाय using the अधिक विशिष्ट `` digital games '' descriptive.
This term leaves out the पहले analog-based computer games.
This is a list of best-selling video game franchises that have बेची or shipped at least 5 million copies.
Unless otherwise stated, numbers indicate worldwide इकाई बेची, ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount.
The exception are the ones specifying शिपमेंट, which have lower precedence than others listing sales.
Franchise sales include expansion packs even हालांकि वे हैं नहीं माना full video games.
For best-selling व्यक्तिगत वीडियो games, see List of best-selling video games.
The sales figures given below do not include arcade game sales, which can be found at List of highest-grossing आर्केड वीडियो खेल.
– This color indicates a sub-series of a larger video game franchise.
This does not necessarily apply for series that हैं नहीं वीडियो game-based.
डोरोथी ऐन विलिस रिचर्ड्स ( September 1, 1933 – September 13, 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas.
She first came to national ध्यान as the राज्य कोषाध्यक्ष of टेक्सास, जब वो वितरित the keynote पता at the 1988 Democratic National Convention.
Richards served as the 45th राज्यपाल of Texas from 1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
Ann Richards was the दूसरी मादा राज्यपाल of Texas.
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a सुरक्षा विशेषता शामिल in modern operating systems.
It is known to be available in Linux, Mac OS X, iOS, Microsoft Windows and Android ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों और is intended to prevent an application or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region.
This helps prevent certain exploits that store code via a buffer अतिप्रवाह, लिये उदाहरण.
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable, and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect विरूद्ध निष्पादन of कोड in आंकड़ा पृष्ठों, लकिन बजाय counters SEH overwrite, another type of attack.
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ), on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP Service Pack 2, while Apple introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006.
Example illustration of two common futanari विसंगतियाँ
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism, जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader sense for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic विधा of कंप्यूटर खेल, comics and animations, which includes characters that show both primary sexual characteristics.
But in today 's language it refers लगभग exclusively लिये वर्ण who have an overall feminine appearance.
In कि मामला the पद is भी प्रायः abbreviated as futa ( s ), which is occasionally also used as term for the works itself.
Early captchas such as these, generated by the EZ-Gimpy program, were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to बनाएँ a distorted पृष्ठभूमि and high levels of warping on the text, might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line.
Another रास्ता to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together, as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
Some captchas कोशिश to utilize the ability of people to see three-dimensional objects.
on इस चित्र, प्रतीकों are drawn with lines of different thickness to make an effect of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in कम्प्यूटिंग as an attempt to ensure that the response is generated by a human being.
The process usually involves a computer asking a user to पूरा a सरल परीक्षण which the computer is able to grade.
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate but मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve, लकिन again easy for a human.
if a correct solution is received, it can be presumed to have been entered by a human.
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or अंक इससे a distorted चित्र कि appears on the screen.
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites, since a normal human can easily read a CAPTCHA, while the bot can not process the image letters and therefore, can not जवाब properly, or at all.
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated, many of them have become difficult even for a human to read, so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal pictures ), which is simple for a human being to process, and इसलिए आसान to चुनें, जबकि a bot can नहीं प्रक्रम और solve the सवाल क्युकी हालांकि it can analyze the चित्र, it can not easily guess the animal.
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by Luis वोन ahn, मैनुएल ब्लम, निकोलस J. Hopper, and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym based on the word `` capture '' और खड़ा लिये `` completely स्वचालित पब्लिक Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15 October 2004, but the ट्रेडमार्क अनुप्रयोग was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing परीक्षण, क्युकी it is administered by a यंत्र और targeted at a human, in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer, एक्सप्लोरर, conservationist, फिल्मकार, innovator, वैज्ञानिक, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र, author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered marine conservation and was a सदस्य of the académie française.
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast खाना रेस्तरां कड़ी headquartered in louisville, Kentucky, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` American icon '', it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by बिक्री ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's, साथ over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120 countries and territories.
The company is a subsidiary of Yum !
Brands, a restaurant company which also owns पिज़्ज़ा हट और टैको घंटी.
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders, who began selling fried chicken इससे उसके roadside रेस्तरां in कोर्बिन, केंटकी दौरान the Great Depression.
Sanders was one of the first people to see the potential of the restaurant फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा, साथ the पहला `` केंटकी fried मुर्गा '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952.
The मताधिकार popularized मुर्गा in the तेज़ food industry, thereby diversifying the market and challenging the dominance of the hamburger.
Marketing खुद as `` कर्नल सैंडर्स '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The कम्पनी 's रैपिड विस्तार saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage, and in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John Y. Brown, Jr. and Jack Massey.
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to विस्तार internationally, opening outlets in England, Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
throughout the 1970s और 1980s, केएफसी अनुभवी mixed fortunes domestically, as it went through a series of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business.
In the early 1970s, केएफसी थी बेची to the आत्माओं कड़ heublein, जो were taken over by the R.J. Reynolds food and tobacco conglomerate, who sold the chain to PepsiCo.
The chain continued to expand overseas however, and in 1987 केएफसी became the पहला पश्चिमी restaurant chain to open in China.
The chain has since expanded rapidly in China, and the country is now the company 's most profitable market.
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as Tricon Global रेस्तरां, जिससे बाद बदला इसके name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
KFC primarily बिकता fried chicken pieces and variations such as chicken sandwiches and wraps, salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw, desserts and soft drinks, often supplied by PepsiCo.
Its most famous product is pressure fried chicken pieces, seasoned साथ सैंडर्स ' `` असली Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices.
The exact nature of these ingredients is unknown, and represents a notable trade secret.
Larger portions of fried मुर्गा हैं परोसा in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '', which has become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '', which has since been replaced by `` nobody करता मुर्गा जैसे केएफसी '' और `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments.
Their distinguishing विशेषता is cnidocytes, specialized cells that they use mainly for capturing prey.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like पदार्थ, sandwiched between दो परतों of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick.
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps, both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths घिरी by tentacles कि bear cnidocytes.
Both forms have a single orifice and देह गुहा कि are used for digestion and respiration.
Many cnidarian प्रजाति produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' activities हैं समन्वित by a विकेन्द्रित nerve net and simple receptors.
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, और कुछ have simple eyes.
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae, but कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
cnidarians यहूद लिये a long समय grouped साथ ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa, a diverse group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as अनेक समुद्री फ़ॉर्म, और रै दोनो स्थानबद्ध सदस्यों ऐसे as hydra और औपनिवेशिक swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War.
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of scyphozoa, और वहीँ is बहस परिचय whether myxozoa और polypodiozoa हैं cnidarians or करीब to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to पशु अनेक टाइम्स larger than themselves, लकिन अनेक obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites.
Many are preyed upon by अन्य animals including starfish, sea slugs, fish and turtles.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae, support some of the संसार 's सबसे उत्पादक ecosystems, और protect वनस्पति in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals are almost entirely प्रतिबंधित to गरम, उथले समुद्री waters, other cnidarians live in the depths, in polar seas and in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed about, and other fossils show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few लाख सालो बाद.
Fossils of cnidarians कि do नहीं निर्माण mineralized structures are very rare.
Scientists currently think that cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians are अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than these are to other sponges, and that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, हालांकि माना अधिक `` आदिम '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
The Aztec Pyramid at St. Cecilia acatitlan, मैक्सिको State.
Aztec jade mask depicting the god xipe totec.
Large ceramic statue of an एज़टेक Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico, particularly those समूह जो spoke the नावातल भाषा and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( बहुवचन ) औसत `` people from Aztlan ``, a mythological place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of the time, and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people.
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico City ), situated on an द्वीप in झील texcoco, जो referred to themselves as mexica tenochca or cōlhuah mexica.
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states, the Acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan, who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec ट्रिपल गठबंधन जिससे नियंत्रित कया is प्रायः ज्ञात as `` the एज़टेक साम्राज्य ''.
In other contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples, who shared large भाग of उनके जातीय इतिहास और सांस्कृतिक traits साथ the mexica, acolhua और Tepanecs, and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an Aztec civilization including all the particular cultural patterns common for most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the capital of the Aztec Triple गठबंधन, the नगर of tenochtitlan, थी निर्मित upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco.
The ट्रिपल गठबंधन formed a उपनदी साम्राज्य expanding its political hegemony far beyond the Valley of Mexico, conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica.
At its pinnacle, एज़टेक संस्कृति था समृद्ध और complex mythological and religious traditions, as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along with a large क्रमांक of नावातल बोलना स्वदेशी allies, conquered tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of मैक्सिको नगर on the site of the ruined Aztec capital, from where they proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America.
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés and बर्नल díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of एज़टेक संस्कृति और इतिहास लिखा by स्पेनी clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language, such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants.
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3, 1967 ) is an American journalist, author, and टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व.
He is the primary anchor of the सीएनएन न्यूज दिखाएँ Anderson Cooper 360°.
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York City studio ; however, कूपर प्रायः प्रसारण सजीव on स्थान लिये तोड़कर news stories.
As of September 2011, he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated daytime talk show, एंडरसन सजीव, जिससे होगा be रद्द at the end of the second season.
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped वक्र ) जहाँ प्रत्येक बैंड रै a चौडाई of 1 मानक deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 rule
Cumulative probability of a normal distribution with expected मान 0 और मानक विचलन 1.
In statistics and probability सिद्धान्त, मानक विचलन ( represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा, σ ) shows कैसा much variation or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ), or expected value.
A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be बहुत बंद to the औसत ; ऊँची standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values.
The standard deviation of a random variable, statistical population, data set, or probability distribution is the वर्गाकार रूट of इसके variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically कम मजबूत than the average absolute deviation.
A useful property of standard deviation is that, नापसंद variance, it is expressed in the same units as the data.
Note, however, कि लिये माप with percentage as unit, the standard deviation will have percentage points as unit.
In addition to expressing the variability of a population, standard deviation is commonly used to माप विश्वास in सांख्यिकीय conclusions.
For example, the margin of error in polling data is determined by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the परिणाम if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times.
The reported margin of error is typically परिचय twice the मानक विचलन ­– the दायरा of a 95 percent confidence interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data, and only effects that fall far outside the range of standard deviation are considered statistically significant – सामान्य यादृच्छिक गलती or विभिन्नता in the माप is in this way distinguished from causal variation.
Standard deviation is also important in वित्त, जहाँ the मानक विचलन on the rate of return on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of data from a population is available, the standard deviation of the population can be estimated by a modified quantity called the `` sample standard deviation ''.
When the sample is the entire population, इसके unmodified मानक विचलन is called the `` population standard deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown और economically महत्वपूर्ण root crops in the Andean region of South America, second only to the potato.
It is known there with the common name of papa lisa, but also by the regional names melloco ( इक्वाडोर ), olluco ( पेरू ), chugua ( कोलंबिया ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
The leaf and the tuber are edible, similar to spinach and the आलू, क्रमशः.
They are known to contain high levels of प्रोटीन, कैल्सियम, and carotene.
Papalisa were used by the incas prior to arrival of Europeans in South America.
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` Earth Gems '' in नई जीलैंड, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
Ulluco tubers in New Zealand
An April 24, 1851 poster warning the `` रंगीन लोगों of बोस्टन '' about policemen acting as slave catchers.
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18, 1850, as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and उत्तरी free-soilers.
This was one of the most controversial अधिनियमों of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
It घोषित कि all runaway slaves were, upon capture, to be returned to their masters.
abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' for the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves.
Frank Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born अक्तूबर 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. Representative for, serving since 1993.
He is a member of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी.
He previously represented the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a इन्जील duo from New Orleans, Louisiana in the United States.
The group was marketed as a इन्जील वैकल्पिक to r & B girl groups such as Destiny 's Child and TLC.
trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold over 2.5 million albums.
In 1998, the समूह released उनके first album entitled Trin-i-tee 5:7 which debut at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts.
the एल्बम प्रदर्शित the गीतों `` God 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do n't तुम रोते ''.
The एल्बम बाद became certified gold.
In 1999, Terri Brown left the group and was later replaced by सिंगर Adrian Anderson.
During that year, the group अंकित और released उनके second album, Spiritual Love.
The album became the समूह 's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts.
The एल्बम contained the singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the समूह released उनके third album The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
In 2007, the group left gospocentric रिकॉर्ड और signed a record deal with Spirit Rising Music.
In late 2007, trin-i-tee 5:7 released their fifth album T57, which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel Albums, # 5 on the Top Christian charts, और # 12 on the शीर्ष r & b चार्ट.
The United States federal earned income tax credit or अर्जित आय क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable कर क्रेडिट for low- and medium-income individuals and couples, primarily for those who have qualifying children.
When the क्रेडिट exceeds the राशि of कर owed, it results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit.
This credit is provided to offset the burden of social security कर और भी to प्रचार an प्रोत्साहन to work.
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more व्यक्तियों as उनके qualifying चाइल्ड ( ren ), the आयु, relationship, and shared residency requirements must be met, as well as some other requirements.
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ, 1040a, or 1040 can be प्रयुक्त to अर्जी eic without qualifying children.
To claim the credit with qualifying children, 1040a or 1040 जरूर be used, as well as attaching Schedule EIC.
EIC phases in slowly, has a medium-length plateau, and तब phases आउट अधिक धीरे than it phased in.
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ), it is always preferable to have one more dollar of actual salary or wages ( although technically, since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments, it 's always अस्तबलों to have an अतिरिक्त fifty-dollar वृद्धि of सैलरी or मजदूरी ).
For tax year 2011, the maximum eic लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or युगल filing without qualifying children was $ 464.
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094, साथ दो children थी $ 5,112, and with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
ये amounts हैं indexed annually for inflation.
The अर्जित आय कर क्रेडिट रै महरूम भाग of राजनैतिक debates in the United States regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a list of halftime shows held at the National Football League 's चैंपियनशिप खेल, the सुपर कटोरी.
While मध्यांतर shows हैं a परंपरा दौरान फ़ुटबॉल खेल at सब स्तर of प्रतियोगिता, the सुपर कटोरी मध्यांतर दिखाएँ represents a fundamental link to pop culture, which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest.
In most years since the mid-1980s, the halftime show of the सुपर कटोरी रै प्रदर्शित popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased टेलीविज़न दर्शक दौरान and after the halftime show.
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in American television annually with over 100 million दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य अलोन.
musical जाति over the सालो have represented a broad range of music types, including pop, rock, classic rock, country, hip hop, rap, blues, and soul.
In some years, short skits or drama scenes are acted आउट on a स्टेज.
The performance समूह up साथ लोगों has performed at the most Super Bowl halftime shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to nielsen दरजा, सुपर कटोरी xlvi halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in history, with 114 million viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 मध्यांतर show performance was the second most viewed show in history.
It is सूचीबद्ध on the गिनीज संसार Records as the largest TV audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance.
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual international event मनाये on 19th नवम्बर.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago, the day and its events find support इससे a किस्में of individuals and groups in Australia, the Caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, Director of Women and Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said of IMD, `` इस is an बेहतरीन विचार और होता दे कुछ लिंग balance. ''
She added that UNESCO was looking forward to cooperating with the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's Day include focusing on मेन 's और लड़कों ' स्वास्थ्य, improving gender relations, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an अवसर to हाइलाइट पक्षपात विरूद्ध मेन और लड़कों और to celebrate उनके उपलब्धियाँ and contributions, in particular for their contributions to community, family, marriage, and child care.
The broader and ultimate aim of the इवेंट is to प्रचार मौलिक humanitarian values.
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, तंजानिया, ज़िम्बाब्वे, बोत्सवाना, australia, बुरुंडी, हंगेरियाई, आयरलैंड, आइल of man, घाना, कनाडा, डेनमार्क, नार्वे, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine, France, Italy, Pakistan, Cuba, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Grenada and Cayman Islands, on 19 November, and global support for the celebration is broad.
घाटी Village ParkValley
Village is a district in the San फर्नांडो घाटी प्रदेश of Los Angeles, California.
The median age of its population, at 36, is `` old for the city of Los Angeles. '' and its average household आकार of दो लोगों is कम, compared to अन्य भाग of the city.
Developmental psychology is the वैज्ञानिक study of changes that occur in human beings over the course of their life span.
Originally concerned with infants और children, the फ़ील्ड रै विस्तारित to शामिल किशोरावस्था, adult development, aging, and the entire life span.
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving, moral understanding, and conceptual understanding ; language अधिग्रहण ; सोशल, व्यक्तित्व, और emotional विकास ; और self-concept और पहचान formation.
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to which development occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like development, or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience.
Many researchers are interested in the interaction between personal characteristics, the individual 's बर्ताव, और पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित सोशल कॉन्टेक्स्ट, and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach.
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields, including : शैक्षणिक मनोविज्ञान, चाइल्ड psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
developmental मनोविज्ञान complements अनेक अन्य मौलिक शोध fields in psychology including social psychology, cognitive psychology, ecological psychology, and comparative psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional character who first appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी sitcom सब in the Family.
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike stivic ( निभाई by रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया stivic ( played by Sally Struthers ), and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part एपीसोड of सब in the Family which aired in December 1975.
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time, Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin draeger ), the जॉय stivic अक्षर अगला appeared on the सब in the परिवार spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the अक्षर थी निभाई by चाइल्ड कर्ता Dick Billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age.
With Gloria now separated from Mike, she returned to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस साथ जॉय in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home. ''
In this एपीसोड, Joey was played by Christopher Johnston.
Joey Stivic was a नियमित अक्षर on the सब in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had स्थानांतरित to upstate नई यॉर्क in order to work as an assistant veterinarian, the part of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, जॉय stivic disappeared इससे प्रधान समय टेलीविज़न लिये 11 years, until the character made one last appearance on 704 Hauser, a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who had moved into the old Bunker home, years after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 years पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional जनम ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll '' ( called `` Archie Bunker 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` पहला anatomically सही पुरूष गुड़िया. ''
The doll प्रेरित mild विवाद at the time, and is a collectors ' item today.
the 2011 रोज़ कटोरी थी the 97th संस्करण of the सालाना bowl game played on January 1, 2011, as part of the 2010 college football season.
Played in Pasadena, California, the TCU Horned Frogs of the पहाड़ वेस्ट सम्मेलन पराजित the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena Tournament of Roses संघ थी the organizer of the game.
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor and the game was officially named `` The Rose Bowl Game प्रस्तुत by vizio ''.
इस खेल चिह्नित the पहला समय a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in, and won, the Rose Bowl in its 97 years.
The contest was broadcast on cable television station ESPN with a radio broadcast on ESPN रेडियो और xm Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
Coverage began at 1:30 pm ( PST ) with kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ).
This marked the पहला time that the game was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl, which was the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & Memories, was a contractual sell-out, साथ 64,500 टिकटें आबंटित to the participating टीमों और सम्मेलनों.
टिकट कीमतें लिये सब सीटे in the Rose Bowl are listed at $ 145.
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members, sponsors, City of Pasadena निवासियों, और the सामान्य पब्लिक.
The Rose Bowl stadium capacity is सूचीबद्ध at लगभग 91,000.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे announced that the thirteen American colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a new nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता, जिससे was unanimously approved on July 2.
A कमेटी था already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, जिससे कॉंग्रेस would edit to produce the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a औपचारिक explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4, हालांकि एडम्स चाही July 2.
After ratifying the text on July 4, Congress issued the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in several forms.
it थी initially प्रकाशित as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the घोषणा, a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर was August 2.
The असली जुलाई 4 संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि was lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document.
The स्त्रोत और निर्वचन of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The घोषणा जायज the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त States by listing colonial grievances against King George III, and by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since then, it has come to be considered a major statement on human rights, particularly its दूसरी sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of सुख.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English भाषा '', containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history. ''
The passage came to represent a moral मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the Declaration to be the न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, और argued कि the घोषणा is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of marginalized लोगों throughout the world.
chitty chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel.
The film 's script is by Roald Dahl and Ken Hughes and its songs by the शरमन भाइयो.
It stars Dick Van Dyke as caractacus potts और सैली ऐन howes as truly Scrumptious.
The film was directed by Ken Hughes and produced by Albert R. ब्रोकोली ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears supervised the खास effects.
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music, while the musical संख्याएँ यहूद मंचन by मार्क breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ water, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to lack vegetation and हैं पुकारा xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places include सबसे of अफ़्रीकी और भाग of दक्षिण America and Central America.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न, जिससे is associated with the constellation Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 and 125.25 degree of celestial longitude, which the Sun transits इस क्षेत्रफल on औसत between June 22 to July 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently from July 21 to August 9.
The United States अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican Party मनोनीत लाज़िम Vice-President Richard Nixon, while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, रिपब्लिकन Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज, the closest चूंकि 1916.
This was the पहला चुनाव in जिससे सब fifty of the current United States participated.
A number of कारकों बताइये क्यों the election was so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन, और he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried छोटी वज़न, और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in सब 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign organization to जीत the नामांकन, सुरक्षित समर्थन, and, with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to hold the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president, a phenomenon that has been repeated once, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
Sherwood is a नगर in वॉशिंगटन County, Oregon, United States.
Located in the southeast corner of the county, it is a residential community in the tualatin घाटी दक्षिणपश्चिम of Portland.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,791 at the 2000 census.
according to the 2010 census, the population was 18,205 residents.
Indirectly named for the Sherwood वन in इंग्लैण्ड, it थी पहला incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into विधि by अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on अक्तूबर 26, 2001.
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that स्टैंड लिये uniting ( और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th, significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions, particularly those involving विदेशी individuals और entities ; और broadened the discretion of विधि प्रवर्तन और आव्रजन अधिकारियों in निमाड़ और deporting आप्रवासियों suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism, thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT Act’s विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन शक्तियां can be लागू.
On May 26, 2011, President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011, a four-year extension of three key provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was in France : roving wiretaps, searches of business records ( the `` library रिकॉर्ड प्रावधान `` ), और conducting निगरानी of `` लोन भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related क्रियाएँ not linked to terrorist groups.
Republican नेताओ questioned if the उपयोग of the Autopen met the constitutional requirements for signing a bill into law.
A house in Queen ऐनी स्टाइल at 223 Avenue A.
snohomish is a नगर in snohomish County, Washington, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 9,098 at the 2010 census.
The mayor of Snohomish is Karen guzak, और the नगर Manager is Larry Bauman.
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown, and was once known for its many antique shops when it was known as the `` पुरातन पूंजी of the Northwest. ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish Historic District, which is listed on the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक स्थान.
Many houses bear plaques with the year the हाउस was built and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied it.
Once every year, the city gives tours of the historic houses ; one of उन्हें, the blackman House, is a year-round museum.
A general aviation airfield, Harvey Airfield, is less than one mile दक्षिणपश्चिम of शहर snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American चट्टान बैंड कि थी formed in charlottesville, Virginia, United States, in 1991.
The founding members were singer-songwriter and guitarist Dave Matthews, bassist Stefan Lessard, drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist soon after the बैंड थी formed.
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to जटिलताओं इससे चोटों sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the flecktones रै चूंकि भर मूर 's स्पॉट as the band 's saxophonist.
Rashawn Ross and Tim रेनॉल्ड्स have also become full-time touring members of the band.
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, earning the band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, थी released in 2012, और भी debuted at number one on the Billboard chart.
as of 2010, the डेव Matthews Band has sold over 30 million records worldwide.
The band is known for their annual summer-long टुर of the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show.
This portion of the tour has become a stamp of DMB and has grown साथ the बैंड चूंकि fenton विलियम्स began working with them in the early 1990s.
After बीस लगातार सालो of touring the band announced that it would take the summer of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews Band has won एक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, और थी awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
According to जूलियन Bond, `` they sell out the largest arenas on Earth, but frequently give their music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott, about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work was पहला प्रकाशित in a नई यॉर्क समाचारपत्र in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In her खाता, alcott provides the real people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises.
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb, '' while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott, louisa 's माँ और Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
alcott depicts उसके पिता as वर्चस्व by his more forceful partner, and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers.
The men of the community spend their time in pointless debates जबकि सिस्टर आशा works इससे dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at कटाई समय, जब the grain crop is threatened by an approaching storm.
In Alcott 's शब्द, `` परिचय the time the grain was ready to house, some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
Sister Hope organizes the only available help, three little लड़कियों और a लड़के, और manages to सहेजें the crop.
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns cold, when it becomes clear कि उनके प्रावधानों हैं too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his son abscond to जुड़ें the shakers — हालांकि timon is अप्रसन्न to सीख that life among them is `` all work and no play. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to खा again तभी जब he realizes कि his family needs him.
Sister Hope finds a रास्ता for them to subsist and persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in her novel, प्रकाशित in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` अनुभवातीत जंगली Oats '' has been reprinted in several modern editions.
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in the Sawatch Range, part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost कस्बा of पावन क्रॉस नगर और in त्रिभुज County.
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर face.
Under USDA Forest Service administration, the mountain was proclaimed `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by हर्बर्ट हूवर on may 11, 1929.
the monument was transferred to the National Park Service in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service और खोया इसके नेशनल स्मारक status—the क्रमांक of विज़िटर to the mountain and the nearby `` Pilgrim 's Hut '' had waned, and the expense of full-time staff could not be justified.
This mountain has been the subject of painters, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र और भी a कविता by हेनरी Wadsworth Longfellow, ( The Cross of Snow ).
The first publicly available photograph was प्रकाशित in नेशनल Geographic magazine.
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting, which now is part of the collection of the संग्रहालय of the अमरीकी वेस्ट, part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles, California.
It is still much photographed but it is not as well known आज as it was in the past.
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake, directly under the east face of the peak, Tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak, और अनेक other lakes.
Notable locations within include the Dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( निकट Interstate 70 ), Vail and Aspen.
US 24 runs near the शिखर through Gilman.
Photochrom print of माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस c. 1900.
This image is a reversed view of the पहाड़ compared to how it actually appears.
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873, by F. V. hayden और फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन दौरान एक of hayden 's भौगोलिक surveys.
however, the peak may well have been ascended previously by miners or American Indians.
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by Russel keene और हावर्ड freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp Hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes, with the easiest and most common route being the North Ridge, which involves of लंबवत लाभ over और is रेटेड yds क्लास 2 लिये moderate scrambling.
The Cross Couloir रूट फ़ॉर्म the लंबवत portion of the प्रसिद्ध cross feature, and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent.
Mount of the पावन Cross has a history of endangering the lives of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar साथ the risks of प्रवेश wilderness areas and do not bring adequate equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike, unprepared hikers हैं अक्सर stranded or खोया due to बदलना पर्यावरणीय शर्तें and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North Ridge.
thorough शोध and reasonable planning should prevent most tragedies.
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible इससे Tigiwon Road, south of Minturn, Colorado.
The Half Moon pass ट्रेल is the मानक route to the summit of Mount of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an ascent of पायदान पहाड़ ट्रेल provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge.
The GSM logo is प्रयुक्त to पहचानो संगत handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a standard set developed by the European दूरसंचार मानकों संस्थान ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल लिये दूसरी पीढी ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones.
it became the de facto वैश्विक standard for mobile communications with over 80 % market share.
The GSM standard was विकसित as a बदलना लिये पहला पीढी ( 1g ) एनालॉग सेल्यूलर संजाल, and originally described a digital, circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony.
This was expanded over time to include data communications, first by circuit switched transport, then packet data transport via GPRS ( सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( उन्नत आंकड़ा rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by fourth पीढी ( 4g ) LTE Advanced standards.
`` GSM '' is a trademark owned by the जीएसएम Association.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease bill to give सहायता to ब्रिटेन और चीन ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease अधिनियम थी an act where the United States had supported its allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law कि प्रारंभ a कार्यक्रम अंतर्गत जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the United Kingdom, the USSR, Republic of China, Free France, and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on March 11, 1941, a साल और a हाफ बाद the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939.
This was nine महीने पहले the u.S. entered the war in December 1941.
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the United States, the Act effectively ended the संयुक्त States ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 billion to the सोवियत Union, $ 3.2 billion to France, $ 1.6 billion to China, and smaller sums to other Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as किराया on एयर bases that went to the U.S., and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this, $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth.
The terms of the agreement provided that the materiel was to be प्रयुक्त जबतक समय लिये उनके वापसी or destruction.
Supplies after the termination date were sold to Britain at a large discount for £1.075 billion using long-term लोन इससे the संयुक्त States.
Canada operated a similar program that भेजा $ 4.7 अरब in आपूर्तियाँ to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union.
The United राज्य किया नहीं charge for aid supplied under this legislation.
This program was a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति, जिससे had dominated United States foreign relations since the end of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), also called sunroot, sunchoke, earth apple or topinambour, is a प्रजाति of sunflower native to eastern North America, and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota, and south to northern Florida and Texas.
It is also cultivated widely आरपार the शीतोष्ण zone for its tuber, which is used as a root vegetable.
Castillo San Felipe डेल morro भी ज्ञात as फोर्ट सैन फेलिप डेल morro or Morro Castle, is a 16th-century citadel located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in Wiltshire, इंग्लैण्ड, about west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury.
एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साइट in the world, Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the most dense complex of पाषाणकालीन और कांस्य आयु स्मारक in इंग्लैण्ड, including several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists believe it was built anywhere इससे 3000 bc to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones were raised between 2400 and 2200 BC, whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have महरूम उठाया at the site as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding गोलाकार धरती बैंको और खाई, जिससे constitute the earliest phase of the monument, have been dated to about 3100 BC.
The site and its परिवेश यहूद added to the युनेस्को 's list of World Heritage Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
It is a national legally सुरक्षित अनुसूचित Ancient Monument.
stonehenge is स्वामित्व by the Crown and managed by English Heritage, while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
Archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates कि stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains मिला on the साईट indicate कि जमा contain इंसान bone from as early as 3000 BC, when the ditch and bank were first dug.
ऐसे जमा continued at Stonehenge for at least another 500 years.
the साईट is a प्लेस of religious significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an annual college बास्केट टूर्नामेंट for women.
Held each April, the Women 's Championship was उदघाटन in the 1981–82 ऋतु.
The NCAA टूर्नामेंट थी preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament, which was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of बारह महिलाओं 's खेल added to the ncaa चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम लिये the 1981-82 school year, as the NCAA engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) sports ; however, after a साल of डुअल महिलाओं 's championships, the ncaa prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years, especially since 2003, when the final चैंपियनशिप खेल थी स्थानांतरित to the मंगलवार following the सोमवार मेन 's championship game.
The women 's championship game is now the final overall game of the college basketball season.
Before that, the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the Friday before the Men 's Final Four or the hours पहले the मेन निभाई on the final Saturday of the tournament.
The final was usually played the Sunday afternoon following the मेन 's फाइनल Four.
The tournament bracket is made up of champions from each Division I conference, which receive स्वचालित bids.
The remaining स्लॉट हैं at-large बोलियों, साथ टीमों चुनी by an NCAA selection committee.
The चयन प्रक्रम और टूर्नामेंट seedings हैं आधारित on several factors, including team rankings, win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data.
Unlike the men 's tournament, there are only 32 at-large bids ( as of the अगला टूर्नामेंट in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The women 's tournament, like the men 's, is staged in a single elimination स्वरूप, और is भाग of the मीडिया और public frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance.
All 63 games have been ब्रॉडकास्ट on टेलीविज़न चूंकि 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS, local teams are shown on each channel when available, with `` whip-around '' कवरेज designed to शोकेस the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी contests in the rest of the country.
The Rosetta Stone in the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V.
The डिक्री appears in तीन स्क्रिप्ट : the अपर text is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs, the middle portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some minor differences between them ), it provided the कुंजी to the आधुनिक समझना of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed within a temple, the stone was probably moved during the early Christian or medieval period and eventually used as building material in the construction of फोर्ट जुलिएन निकट the कस्बा of रशीद ( rosetta ) in the nile Delta.
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier, pierre-françois Bouchard, of the French expedition to Egypt.
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times, the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread public interest with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated प्राचीन language.
Lithographic copies and plaster casts began circulating among यूरोपीय संग्रहालय and scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops defeated the French in Egypt in 1801, and the original stone came into अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा under the Capitulation of Alexandria.
transported to London, it has been on public display at the British Museum since 1802.
It is the most-visited object in the British Museum.
Ever since its rediscovery, the stone has been the फ़ोकस of राष्ट्रवादी rivalries, सहित इसके ट्रांसफ़र इससे फ्रेंच to अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा दौरान the napoleonic Wars, a long-running dispute over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to Egypt.
Study of the decree was already अंतर्गत रास्ता as the पहला पूरा translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, पहले the लिप्यन्तरण of the मिश्र स्क्रिप्ट थी घोषित by Jean-François Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before scholars were able to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well, and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young, 1814 ) ; and that, in addition to being used लिये विदेशी names, ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to वर्तनी देशी मिश्र शब्द ( champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later, and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions are now known, including two slightly पहले ptolemaic डिक्री ( the डिक्री of canopus in 238 bc, और the मेम्फिस डिक्री of टॉलेमी iv, ca. 218 bc ).
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique, but it was the essential key to modern understanding of Ancient मिश्र साहित्य और सभ्यता.
The term Rosetta स्टोन is अभी प्रयुक्त in अन्य contexts as the नाम लिये the अनिवार्य clue to a new field of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly ज़हर तीर मेंढक ) is the आम नाम of a समूह of मेंढक in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America.
These प्रजाति हैं diurnal and often have brightly colored bodies.
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic, levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next and from one population to another.
Many प्रजाति हैं threatened.
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 species, तभी चार have महरूम प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त लिये इस purpose ( curare पौधे are more commonly used ), all of which come from the Phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members.
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened syrup usually made of sweetened caramelised मिल्क.
According to chef Rick Bayless, the name for cajeta आए from the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta, which means `` a liquid thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked ''.
Another hypothesis is that it takes its name from the छोटी लकड़ी बाक्स in जिससे it was traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is माना a specialty of the नगर of celaya in the राज्य of guanajuato, although it is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco, such as Mazamitla, Sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened liquid, stirring अक्सर, जबतक it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water, and caramelized.
While goat milk is the most usual आधार, अन्य liquids or juices may be used.
In Celaya, and eventually the rest of मैक्सिको, the confection of हाफ बकरी 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta, but elsewhere, the milk candy became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It has cousins in the अनेक भारतीय milk-based मिठाई like pera and the milk fudge burfi, and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet, as a spread or filling for breads and pastries, such as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.
Certain liquors are added to खास व्यंजनों पुकारा cajeta envinada.
In addition, cajeta envinada especial is enriched with raisins, बादाम, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes, as a sweet sauce boiled और softened bas साथ मिल्क to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In Mexico many ब्रांड्स मेक cajeta लकिन the सबसे common brand is Coronado.
It is also very common to place cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican dessert.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of Charles, Prince of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा, और संत किट्स और Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, Tanzania, and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed अनेक टाइम्स.
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a लेफ्टिनेंट in the ब्लूज़ and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air फ़ोर्स, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to RAF Valley on No. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
प्रिंस विलियम married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was created Duke of कैम्ब्रिज, अर्ल of strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
Mali is a बहुभाषी country.
The languages spoken there reflect प्राचीन उपनिवेश पैटर्न, migrations, and its long history.
Ethnologue counts 50 भाषाएं.
Of these, फ्रेंच is the official language and Bambara is the most widely spoken.
Altogether 13 of the स्वदेशी भाषाएं of माली have the legal status of national language.
Sign in French, at a स्मारक in Bamako.
{ { infobox Holiday
Chinese नई Year
9 – 12 February ( वियतनाम )
Rogers Building, the मुख्यालय of रोजर्स Communications
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified public Canadian communications and media कम्पनी.
It is विशेषकर in the फ़ील्ड of बेतार संचार, cable television, telephone, and Internet connectivity with significant additional telecommunications and mass media assets.
The company is headquartered in the Rogers Building in Toronto, Ontario.
The कम्पनी दावा the विरासत of the रोजर्स वैक्यूम ट्यूब कम्पनी, संस्थापित in 1925 by एडवर्ड रोजर्स, जिससे started the CFRB radio station in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, when रोजर्स ' son, Ted Rogers, founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd.
That company acquired CHFI that year, as well as aldred-rogers प्रसारण, a साझेदारी with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later bought out Aldred and started the current cable and wireless operations, ज्ञात as रोजर्स cablesystems ltd.
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and television media assets, as well as wireless, television वितरण, और टेलीफोन सेवाएं, विशेषकर in Eastern and Central Canada ; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions.
however, the कम्पनी भी competes nationally with Telus for wireless services, and primarily indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service.
The company also competes with a number of other media कंपनियाँ in the प्रसारण उद्योग.
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet protocol suite ( tcp/ip ) to serve billions of users worldwide.
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government networks, of local to वैश्विक पैमाना, कि हैं linked by a व्यापक array of electronic, wireless and optical networking technologies.
The अंतरजाल carries an extensive दायरा of सूचना संसाधन और सेवाएं, such as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email.
Most traditional communications media including telephone, music, film, and टेलीविज़न हैं होने reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल, giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ).
Newspaper, book and other print publishing are adapting to Web site प्रौद्योगिकी, or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of human interactions through instant messaging, अंतरजाल forums, and social networking.
Online shopping has boomed both for major retail outlets and small artisans and traders.
Business-to-business and financial services on the अंतरजाल affect supply chains across entire industries.
The origins of the अंतरजाल पहुँचें वापस to research commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to build robust, fault-tolerant communication via computer networks.
The funding of a new U.S. रीढ़ by the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास in the 1980s, as well as private funding for other commercial backbones, led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies, and the merger of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संजाल resulted in इसके popularization and incorporation into virtually every aspect of modern human life.
, more than 2.4 अरब people—over a तीसरा of the संसार 's इंसान जनसांख्यिकी —have used the services of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more people than were using it in 1995, when it was mostly used by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United States and several other countries.
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological क्रियान्वयन or policies for access and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two प्रिंसिपल नाम स्पेसेस in the अंतरजाल, the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल address space and the Domain Name System, are directed by a maintainer organization, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ), a non-profit organization of loosely संबद्ध अंतरराष्ट्रीय भागीदार कि anyone may संबद्ध साथ by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 शीत Olympics, officially known as the XX Olympic Winter Games, was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin, Italy from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic Winter Games, the first being the VII Olympic Winter Games in cortina d'ampezzo in 1956.
Italy also hosted the Games of the xvii ओलंपियाड in रोम in 1960.
Turin was चयनित as the मेजबान city for the 2006 games in 1999.
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '', the Italian name of the city ; the city is known as `` टोरीनो '' in दोनो अंग्रेज़ी और the लोकल परंपरागत language, Piedmontese.
The Olympic mascots of टोरिनो 2006 यहूद neve ( `` हिम '' in इतालवी ), a female snowball, and Gliz, a male ice cube.
The official motto of the xx ओलम्पिक शीत Games was `` Passion lives here ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that served as the title song for दोनो the 1965 फिल्मी और इसके साउंडट्रैक album.
It was also released as a single, and was number one for तीन सप्ताह in दोनो the United States and the United Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' थी लिखा primarily by John Lennon, but credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an interview साथ प्लेबॉय in 1984, पॉल McCartney stated that the title was `` out of desperation ''.
पोस्टर लिये the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who usually gave his name as S. Bing, and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing, 1850–1905, was his brother ) was a जर्मनी आर्ट डीलर जो जिया in पेरिस as an वयस्क, और जो helped introduce जापानी आर्ट और artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
Comparison of male and female life expectancy at birth for countries and territories as पारिभाषित in the 2011 सीआईए factbook, साथ चयनित bubbles labelled.
The dotted line corresponds to equal female and male जीवन प्रत्याशा.
The apparent 3D volumes of the बुलबुले हैं linearly proportional to their population.
This is a list of countries by life प्रत्याशा at birth.
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern part of the U.S. राज्य of वॉशिंगटन, near the Hanford nuclear site.
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the अन्य being Pasco and Richland ).
Kennewick is located along the southwest bank of the Columbia River, opposite Pasco and बस दक्षिण of the संगम of the Columbia and Yakima rivers.
The population was 73,917 at the 2010 census.
April 1, 2012 estimates from the Washington राज्य दफ्तर of वित्तीय प्रबन्धन put the city 's population at 75,160.
The nearest commercial airport is the tri-cities विमानक्षेत्र in Pasco, a regional commercial and private airport.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये जॉब विकास, while nearby Yakima was named # 1.
The article cites the क्रमांक of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and area farmland for this outlook.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and अंतरराष्ट्रीय सामान्यीकृत अनुपात ( inr ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
This test is also called `` protime inr '' और `` pt/inr ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, जिगर क्षति, और विटामिन K status.
PT measures factors I ( फाइब्रिनोजेन ), ii ( prothrombin ), V, VII, and X.
It is used in conjunction with the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love '' is a लोकप्रिय song.
The music was written by Jimmy McHugh, the गीत by Dorothy Fields.
The सोंग थी प्रकाशित in 1935.
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the movie Every Night at आठ released that year.
The song was featured in the 1936 Our गिरोह ( छोटी दुष्टों ) short, The Pinch Singer, sung by Carl `` Alfalfa '' Switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is often ज्ञात to be Switzer 's signature song.
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of इस सोंग प्रेरित the song `` Moody 's Mood for Love ``.
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the आधार लिये the track `` मनोदशा लिये प्रेम '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
The song 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी title of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love.
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human behavior and mental processes, including both their variability and invariance, under diverse cultural शर्तें.
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in behavior, language, and meaning it seeks to extend और develop psychology.
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America, some psychologists became concerned that constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as previously assumed, especially चूंकि अनेक कोशिशें to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, such as affect, संज्ञान, conceptions of the स्वः, और मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology, चिंता, और अवसाद, may कमी बाह्य वैध जब `` exported '' to अन्य सांस्कृतिक contexts, cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases प्रयुक्त impede बल्कि than सहायता the वैज्ञानिक search for universal principles in psychology, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry.
In 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( iaccp ) थी स्थापित.
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as there has been an increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating culture and diversity into studies.
Cross-cultural psychology is differentiated from Cultural मनोविज्ञान.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds that human behavior is significantly influenced by सांस्कृतिक मतभेद, अर्थ that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural psychology includes a ढूंढें लिये संभावित universals in behavior and mental processes.
Walter J. Lonner, writing for Eye on Psi Chi, has stated that `` cross-cultural psychology can be thought of as a प्रकार शोध methodology, rather than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from her दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम born इस Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15, 2011, four दिनों ahead of इसके अनुसूचित रिलीज.
Written and उत्पादित by महिला गागा and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past, and इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further समझाया कि the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by Gaga in microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally well received by critics, who likened the song to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a समान ध्वनि to गागा 's पिछला RedOne-produced tracks, including `` Poker Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन distinct hooks and a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken दौरान the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे redemption, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales खोलने, लकिन थी less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets, and भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the charts in South Korea.
A music वीडियो लिये the सोंग थी फिल्माया in अप्रैल 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and गागा निभाई मरियम magdalene.
The video portrays them as आधुनिक दिन missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus, and ended with गागा as magdalene getting stoned to मौत.
Before its release, the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the video, not ढूंढना कोई अप्रिय content.
the वीडियो थी nominated for two awards at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including The Graham Norton Show, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a मानक लिये वीडियो संपीडन, और is फिलहाल एक of the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त formats for the recording, compression, and distribution of high definition video.
The final drafting work on the first संस्करण of the मानक थी समाप्त in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -आधारd कोडेक मानक विकसित by the itu-t वीडियो कोडिंग Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
the प्रोजेक्ट साझेदारी effort is known as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ).
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC standard ( formally, iso/iec 14496-10 – mpeg-4 भाग 10, उन्नत Video Coding ) are jointly maintained so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the codec standards for Blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray Disc players must be able to डिकोड H.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources, such as videos from Vimeo, YouTube, and the iTunes Store, web software such as the Adobe Flash Player and Microsoft Silverlight, and also various HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC, isdb-t, dvb-t or dvb-t2 ), केबल ( dvb-c ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
Non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute, but this determination is not binding upon them, and no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory राय of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the संबंधित merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding arbitration is used in connection with attempts to reach a negotiated उपनिवेश.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the surface, similar to कि of a mediator in a mediation.
However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the settlement process and will only give a determination of देयता और, if उचित, an indication of the क्वांटम of damages payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the parties remain free to pursue उनके दावा either through the न्यायालयों, or by रास्ता of a बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता, हालांकि in अभ्यास a settlement is the most common outcome.
The award and reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or in another मध्यस्थता ट्रिब्यूनल.
Non-binding arbitration is utilised mostly in the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada.
It is largely unknown in Europe, although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of पार्टियों जो हैं seeking a उपनिवेश to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel लिये an राय on the merits and likely quantum of a claim, and then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion.
Augustine ज्वालामुखी is a लावा गुम्बद जटिल on अगस्टाइन द्वीप in southwestern Cook Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska, southwest of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates माउंट अगस्टाइन as स्तर of चिंता Color Code Green for aviation and the Volcano Alert Level is at Normal.
Augustine Island has a land area of, while West Island, just off अगस्टाइन 's पश्चिमी shores, रै.
The island is बना up मुख्यतः of past eruption deposits.
Scientists have been able to discern that past dome collapse has resulted in विशाल avalanches.
A map of बेलीज़.
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km of तटरेखा, और रै अनेक मूँगा reefs, cays, and islands in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the Belize अवरोध रीफ, the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately.
The reef and इसके आइलैंड्स have महरूम a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to region but all of जिससे हैं in the caribbean Sea.
Most of the आइलैंड्स variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' and `` caye '', and also use the Spanish `` cayo ''.
River आइलैंड्स have not been listed.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc data storage devices to be प्रयुक्त in a manner समान to फ्लॉपी डिस्क.
DLA is a packet writing technology for CD and DVD media that uses the udf संचिका प्रणाली.
DLA is not compatible with खिड़कियाँ विस्टा and newer, although a patch exists to fix this issue under Windows Vista.
Roxio Burn थी introduced on April 30, 2009.
As a replacement for DLA, it remedies compatibility issues अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 8.
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13, 1919 – September 21, 2007 ) was a well-known American television evangelist जिनकी गिरजाघर of कल दिखाएँ थी दिखाया on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity.
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil Burger and starring Bradley Cooper, Abbie cornish, और रॉबर्ट de niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by एलन glynn साथ the पटकथा by Leslie Dixon.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area, the 4th least populous and the तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage महानगर area.
Alaska 's अर्थव्यवस्था is वर्चस्व by the oil, natural gas, and fishing industries ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) at लगभग दो सेंट per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, और the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the mainland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word derived from the same root.
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU ) is a South African tertiary education संस्था साथ इसके प्रमुख प्रशासन in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of three institutions संस्थापित nmmu in जनवरी 2005 लकिन इसके इतिहास dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School.
The University draws international students from सब over the world.
There हैं over 3000 अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी और शामिल विद्यार्थी इससे the संयुक्त States, France, China, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and many other countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering पेशेवर और वोकेशनल training.
The University has six campuses - five in Port एलिज़ाबेथ और एक in George.
The main campus is the दक्षिण कैम्पस.
विद्यार्थी at nmmu can पढ़ाई towards diplomas and degrees up to and including doctoral level qualifications.
A number of courses include कार्यस्थल अनुभव as part of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an American कॉस्मेटिक्स ब्रांड founded in Maryland, by the Noxzema Chemical Company ( later called Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised इस कॉस्मेटिक्स लकीर by allowing `` कवर girls '', fashion models who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a wide किस्में of कॉस्मेटिक्स उपलब्धियाँ at उचित कीमतें.
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a work of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य by चार्ल्स Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by अर्थात् of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life.
For the sixth संस्करण of 1872, the short title was changed to The Origin of Species.
डार्विन 's किताब introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve over the course of generations through a process of natural selection.
it प्रस्तुत a देह of प्रमाण कि the diversity of life arose by common descent through a branching pattern of evolution.
Darwin included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent findings from research, correspondence, and experimentation.
Various विकासवादी विचार था already been proposed to explain new findings in biology.
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, but during the first half of the 19th सदी the अंग्रेज़ी वैज्ञानिक स्थापना was closely tied to the Church of England, while science was part of natural theology.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs that प्रजाति यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed पदानुक्रम और कि humans were unique, unrelated to other animals.
The political and theological implications were intensely debated, but transmutation थी नहीं स्वीकृत by the scientific mainstream.
The book was लिखा लिये non-specialist पाठक और आकर्षित widespread interest upon its publication.
As Darwin was an eminent scientist, his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he प्रस्तुत उत्पन्न वैज्ञानिक, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H. Huxley and उसके fellow सदस्यों of the x क्लबों to secularise विज्ञान by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades there was widespread scientific agreement that evolution, with a branching pattern of आम descent, था occurred, लकिन वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to दे प्राकृतिक चयन the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s, विभिन्न अन्य mechanisms of evolution were given more credit.
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's अवधारणा of विकासवादी अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक selection became central to modern evolutionary theory, now the unifying concept of the life sciences.
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30, 1890 – September 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old perfessor '', थी an अमरीकी प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल outfielder और मैनेजर.
He was elected to the बेसबॉल Hall of Fame in.
Stengel was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and originally nicknamed `` डच '', a common nickname at that time for Americans of German ancestry.
After his major league career began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', जिससे originally आए इससे the आद्याक्षर of उसके hometown ( `` K. C. '' ), which evolved into `` Casey '', influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters उतावले उसे साथ yet another उपनाम, `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related.
Although his baseball करियर spanned a क्रमांक of teams and cities, he is primarily associated with clubs in New York City.
Between playing and managing, he is the only man to have worn four of नई यॉर्क 's प्रमुख लीग क्लब ' वर्दी.
He was the first of four men ( through the season ) to manage दोनो the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ और नई यॉर्क Mets ; Yogi Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others.
जैसे टोरेस, he also managed the Braves and the Dodgers.
he ended उसके बेसबॉल करियर as the beloved मैनेजर लिये the तब expansion New York Mets, which won over the hearts of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and gregorian पंचांग और एक of the four months with a length of 30 days.
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his poem concerning the महीने हकदार the fasti.
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno, wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek देवी hera ; the दूसरी is कि the नाम आता इससे the लैटिन शब्द iuniores, अर्थ `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the month साथ the longest daylight घंटों of the साल in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the मौसमी समतुल्य to December in the Southern Hemisphere and vice versa.
In the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, the beginning of the meteorological summer is 1 June.
In the Southern hemisphere, the शुरूआत of the meteorological winter is 1 June.
At the start of June, the सूर्य उदय in the नक्षत्र of Taurus ; at the end of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini.
However, due to the precession of the equinoxes, June begins with the sun in the astrological चिह्न of मिथुन, और ends साथ the सूर्य in the astrological sign of Cancer.
June is ज्ञात लिये the large number of marriages that occur over the course of the month.
According to one etymology, जून is नामित बाद juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a शादीशुदा युगल 's household, so some consider it good luck to be married in this month.
According to another etymology provided by the रोमन कवि ओविड, जून is नामित लिये the iuniores, latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) and that the month of May is named for the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
In Iceland, folklore says that if you bathe naked in the morning dew on the morning of June 24, तुम हैं supposed to keep aging at bay for longer.
A constitution is a नियत of आधारभूत principles or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed.
These rules साथ मेक up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is.
When these principles are written down into a single document or set of legal दस्तावेज़, those दस्तावेज़ may be कहा to embody a लिखा संविधान ; if वे हैं लिखा down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations, from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated एसोसिएशन.
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also its constitution, in that it would define how that संगठन is गठित.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the principles upon which the state is based, the procedure in जिससे कानून हैं बना और by जिसको.
Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, also अधिनियम as limiters of राज्य शक्ति, by establishing लाइनों which a state 's rulers can not cross, such as fundamental rights.
George वॉशिंगटन at Constitutional Convention of 1787, signing of U.S. Constitution.
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign country in the world, containing 448 articles, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, with 117,369 words in its English language version, while the United राज्य संविधान is the shortest लिखा संविधान, at 7 आलेख और 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut मैनेजर assisting in a robonaut familiarization training session in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center.
अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबन्धन is a specialized form of management that is concerned with the application of engineering principles to business practice.
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी और the organizational, प्रशासनिक, और नियोजन abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion.
Example areas of engineering are उत्पाद विकास, निर्माण, निर्माण, डिज़ाइन अभियान्त्रिकी, औद्योगिक अभियान्त्रिकी, technology, production, or any other field that employs personnel who perform an engineering function.
Successful engineering managers typically require training and अनुभव in कारोबार and engineering.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their तकनीकी टोली, और non-commercial प्रबंधक tend to कमी वाणिज्यिक सूझबूझ to deliver in a market economy.
Largely, engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking, thus require the necessary people skills to coach, mentor and motivate तकनीकी पेशेवर.
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing companies sometimes become engineering managers by डिफॉल्ट बाद a period of time.
They are required to सीख कैसा to मैनेज एकबार वे हैं on the job, though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the राशि of खर्च कि जरूर be सशुल्क आउट of pocket before an insurer will pay any expenses.
In general usage, the term deductible may be used to describe one of several types of clauses ( see below ) that are used by insurance companies as a दहलीज लिये नीति भुगतान.
Deductibles हैं typically प्रयुक्त to deter the large number of trivial claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs, the insurance कड़ expects to अदा out slightly smaller amounts much less frequently, incurring much higher savings.
As a result, insurance premiums are typically cheaper when वे involve उच्चतर deductibles.
Deductibles हैं सामान्यतः provided as clauses in an insurance policy that dictate how much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
They हैं सामान्यतः कोटेड as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा और is a part of most policies covering losses to the policy holder.
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount ( subject to the अधिकतम योग claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may लागू प्रति covered incident, or per year.
For policies where incidences are not easy to delimit ( for उदाहरण स्वास्थ्य बीमे ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
Several deductibles can be नियत by the insurer based on the cause of the claim.
For उदाहरण, a सिंगल आवास बीमे policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from theft, fire, natural calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a deductible in the इवेंट of an auto, home, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
An invoice or bill is a commercial दस्तावेज़ जारी by a विक्रेता to a खरीदार, indicating the उत्पाद, quantities, और सहमत prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer.
an चालान indicates the sale transaction only.
Payment terms are independent of the चालान and are negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
Payment terms are usually included on the चालान.
The buyer could have already paid for the products or services listed on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a maximum number of days in which to pay for these goods और is sometimes offered a छूट if paid before the due date.
In the rental industry, an चालान जरूर शामिल a विशिष्ट सन्दर्भ to the अवधि of the time being billed, so in addition to quantity, price and discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
Generally each line of a rental चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक घंटों, days, weeks, months, etc., being billed.
From the point of view of a विक्रेता, an चालान is a sales invoice.
From the point of view of a buyer, an invoice is a खरीदें चालान.
The document indicates the खरीदार और विक्रेता, लकिन the पद चालान indicates money is owed or owing.
In English, the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify its meaning, such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us धन ) or `` we प्राप्त an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or सही प्रिंसिपल bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, और अधिक vertical in direction than the left.
It is about 2.5 cm long, and enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it from पीछे ; और the सही pulmonary धमनी झूठ at first below and then in front of it.
About 2 cm from its commencement it gives off a शाखा to the अपर पालि of the right lung.
This is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus, because it arises above the सही pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes below the artery, and is known as the hyparterial शाखा ; it divides into two branches for the middle and lower lobes.
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the श्वासनली, it होगा सबसे संभावित डालें the सही प्रमुख bronchus instead of the left, due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet खेल निभाई by दो ( singles ) or four players ( doubles ) in a four-walled court with a small, hollow rubber ball.
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the playable सतहों of the four walls of the court.
The game was formerly called squash racquets, a reference to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the खेल ( compared साथ the fatter ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ).
Squash is recognized by the IOC and supporters are lobbying लिये इसके incorporation in a future Olympic program.
In 2003, Forbes rated squash as the क्रमांक एक healthiest sport to play.
Residual oil is oil found in low concentrations naturally or in बेहाल आयल फ़ील्ड.
Often mixed with जल, it can not be recovered by conventional techniques.
However, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2 EOR ) which involves injecting carbon dioxide into the well reducing श्यानता और बढ़ाना प्रवाह of the oil.
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively on residual oil zones, low-grade deposits of petroleum ऐसे as the 38 वर्गाकार मील in the permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
The technique is limited by उपलब्धता of carbon dioxide.
It does not result in sequestration of the carbon डाइऑक्साइड लकिन the गैस is recycled as much as possible.
संयुक्त राज्य reserves of अवशेष oil are estimated to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the fire, by John R. Chapin, originally printed in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक ; the दृश्य चेहरों पूर्वोत्तर across the Randolph Street Bridge.
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from Sunday, October 8, to early Tuesday, October 10, 1871, हत्या सैंकड़ों और destroying about in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the पुनर्निर्माण कि began helped develop Chicago as one of the most populous and economically important American cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, and later king, of आयरलैंड, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding उसके पिता, Henry VII.
Besides his छह विवाह, हेनरी viii is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a आस्तिक in core Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the कानून in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied साथ the पावन रोमन सम्राट, maximillian i, और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल, well-equipped फौज, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, लिये उसके भाग, प्रयुक्त the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, and he has been described as `` one of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to बैठना on the अंग्रेज़ी throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he भी सगाई खुद as an author and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly इससे निजी वैनिटी और partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण मोटे and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful, egotistical, हर्ष, और असुरक्षित किंग.
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States television network Telemundo, in संयोजन साथ the एंटेना 3 संजाल और rti producciones.
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte, the नाटक depicts the वृद्धि of टेरेसा मेंडोज़ा ( केट डेल कैस्टिलो ), a young woman from Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain.
Patricio Wills, the अध्यक्ष of telemundo टेलीविज़न studios, थी the executive producer.
हालांकि la reina डेल Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year, Favorite Lead Actress, and Best Bad Luck Video, it won no awards.
With a $ 10 million budget, la reina डेल सूर थी the सबसे expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
The program 's premiere on February 28, 2011, was the network 's उच्चतम रेटेड प्रीमियर लिये a telenovela to date.
The program frequently dominated its time slot, भी over अंग्रेज़ी language programming on other major U.S. networks.
La Reina डेल सूर समाप्त इसके 63 एपीसोड run on Telemundo and its 13 episode run on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million viewers ), और ताल सब of the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to launch its पहला अभियान to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination.
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31, 2011, and चिह्नित the telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात latina टेलीविज़न personality Cristina Saralegui.
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other markets, including Serbia, Colombia, चिली, साइप्रस, निकारागुआ, कोस्टा रिका, Mexico, Albania, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, ( among others ).
An example of रैक आरोहित servers
A web hosting सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients, as well as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center स्पेस और कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल लिये अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके data center, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( एफटीपी ) or a वेब interface.
The files हैं प्रायः वितरित to the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer इस सेवा free to subscribers.
individuals और संगठन may also obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर expense depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page होस्टिंग is generally sufficient for personal web pages.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package कि provides डेटाबेस support and application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग like forums and content management.
Also, Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts, as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल और सेवा अनुप्रयोग जैसे e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain तन्त्र or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 ) is an American football video game series developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for ea खेल.
The game series is named after Pro Football Hall of Famer जॉन मैडेन, a well-known पूर्व सुपर Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator.
The series is the best selling EA खेल श्रेणी.
The games have consistently been a best seller, and has even spawned tv shows जहाँ खिलाड़ी compete.
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player आंकडे, और आवाज़ commentary कि allows खिलाड़ी to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast.
The मैडेन एनएफएल श्रेणी has been nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd Franchise.
The series was originally conceived by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला संस्थापक Trip Hawkins, who then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to Madden 's insistence that the game be as realistic as possible, the first version of John मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल थी not released until 1988.
The दूसरी संस्करण of the game was released in 1990, with annual versions since then.
The series ' नाम थी बदला to Madden NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players.
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he continues to lend उसके नाम और provide expertise for the game.
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son, U.S. Army विशेषज्ञ केसी sheehan, थी मारे by दुश्मन कार्रवाई दौरान the इराकी War.
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand that drew both passionate support and angry criticism.
Sheehan ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2008.
She is a गायन आलोचक of अध्यक्ष Barack Obama 's foreign policy.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : A Mother 's Journey through heartache to Activism, was published in 2006.
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम and Freedom Party.
Wyclef Jeanelle जां ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME, Aug 21, 2010.
`` पहले he घोषित on अगस्त 5 कि he थी running for President of Haiti, Wyclef Jean was still listing his age as only 37 years old.
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate, the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come clean and confirm that he was really 40. '' is a three-time Grammy Award -winning haitian-american rapper, singer-songwriter, संगीतकार, रिकार्ड producer, and politician.
At age nine, Jean moved to the United States with his family और रै खर्च much of his life in the country.
He first received fame as a member of the acclaimed नई जर्सी हिप hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election, although the Electoral Commission subsequently ruled him अयोग्य to स्टैंड as he था नहीं मिले the आवश्यकता to have महरूम resident in Haiti for five years.
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti चुनाव सत्ताधारी – बीबीसी न्यूज, Aug 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the Haitian constitution requires उम्मीदवार to have जिया in the देश for five years prior to an election.
The 40-year-old सिंगर जीवनदान in the US.
Jean 's efforts at भूकंप राहत, अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States, were channeled through his charitable organization, Yéle Haiti.
The charity, which performed a किस्में of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory defense to the पूरे or to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim.
It had no existence under the English common विधि, होने निर्मित by 2 जियो. ii c. 22 लिये the राहत of insolvent कर्जदार, हालांकि set-off was recognized in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded only in आदर of परस्पर debts of a definite अक्षर, और किया नहीं apply to cases in which damages were claimed, nor to equitable claims or demands.
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a प्रतिवादी in an कार्रवाई may नियत बंद or नियत up कोई सही or अर्जी by रास्ता of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a plaintiff, and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` Party A '' ) जो owed धन to another ( `` पार्टी b '' ) could be भेजा to debtors prison, despite the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A.
The law thus allows both parties to defer payment जबतक उनके संबंधित दावा have been heard in court.
Upon निर्णय, दोनो दावा हैं बुझे और replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g. If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105, the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that, where a पार्टी मूलभूत, the परस्पर amounts owing हैं automatically set off and extinguished.
In certain jurisdictions ( सहित the uk ), set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company, mutual debts are set-off against each other, और तब either the दिवालिया 's creditor can अर्जी the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid, depending on which side owed the most.
This has been criticized as an undeclared सुरक्षा interest that violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, where a creditor has to pay all its debts, but receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys कि अन्य unsecured लेनदारों मिलेंगी, मुद्राएँ the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
The right to set off is particularly महत्वपूर्ण जब रिपोर्टिंग a बैंको 's विकिरणों to regulatory authorities.
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is इसलिए उजागर, क्युकी वहीँ is a रिस्क कि the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced ( where the bank has taken security over shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken.
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, फिल्मी निदेशक, and producer.
Aniston gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s लिये portraying Rachel Green on the television sitcom Friends, a role which earned her an Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award, and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
एनिस्टन रै भी enjoyed a successful Hollywood film career.
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in the स्वतंत्र films वो 's the एक ( 1996 ), दफ्तर स्पेस ( 1999 ), the Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ).
She has had her greatest commercial सफलताओं साथ the films ब्रूस Almighty ( 2003 ), The Break-Up ( 2006 ), Marley & Me ( 2008 ), Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston received a star on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति on February 22, 2012.
A white बंगाल बाघ at the Houston Aquarium
( वीडियो )
A White tiger at tobu चिड़ियाघर, in saitama, Japan.
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of the Bengal tiger, which was reported in the जंगली इससे time to time in Assam, Bengal, Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa.
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a लोकल कंप्यूटर बस लिये attaching हार्डवेयर डिवाइस in a कंप्यूटर.
The PCI bus supports the कृत्यों मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस, लकिन in a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर bus, and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, called a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an विस्तार card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in ibm pc compatibles, जहाँ it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently महरूम अपनाया for other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, most motherboards are still made with one or more PCI स्लॉट, जिससे हैं sufficient लिये many uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ), विद्युत विशेषताएँ, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : संजाल ताश, ध्वनि ताश, modems, extra ports such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available लिये उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर AGP or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार ताश are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
Caffeine is a bitter, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid कि अधिनियमों as a उत्तेजक drug.
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, and fruit of some plants, where it acts as a natural कीटनाशक कि paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants, as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions निकाली इससे the बीज of the कॉफी संयंत्र और the पत्ते of the tea bush, as well as from various foods and drinks containing products derived from the kola nut.
अन्य स्त्रोत शामिल yerba maté, guarana berries, guayusa, and the yaupon holly.
In humans, caffeine acts as a central nervous system उत्तेजक, temporarily warding बंद drowsiness and restoring alertness.
It is the संसार 's सबसे widely खपत psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world.
Beverages containing caffeine, such as कॉफी, चाय, नरम पेय, और उर्जा पेय, enjoy great popularity.
In North अमेरिका, 90 % of adults consume caffeine daily.
Part of the कारण कैफीन is वर्गीकृत by the खाना और ड्रग प्रशासन as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks, even when carried on for सालो – वहीँ may be a modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव विरूद्ध कुछ diseases, including Parkinsons Disease, and certain types of cancer.
Caffeine can have both positive and negative effects on चिंता विकार.
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine, विशेषकर दौरान the संध्या घंटों, लकिन अन्य show little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is highly variable.
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal, but some authorities have concluded that prudent advice is for pregnant women to सीमा खपत to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less.
The American Congress of obstetricians और स्त्रीरोग ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women.
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people जो हैं नहीं प्रयुक्त to it, लकिन नियमित उपयोक्ता develop a tolerance to this effect, and studies have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration.
साथ भारी use, tolerance develops rapidly to autonomic effects such as elevated heart rate and muscle twitching, but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine.
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically significant physical and mental dependence remains a विषय of विवाद in the चिकित्सा literature.
A kicktail क्रूजर
A longboard is a longer रूपांतर of a स्केटबोर्ड.
It is commonly used for cruising, downhill रेसिंग, slalom रेसिंग, स्लाइडिंग, and/or हस्तांतरण.
Sources outside of विकिपीडिया दे differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the distribution of religions as Christian 100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 %, Protestant 8.15 %, Orthodox 4.96 %, Anglican 1.26 % ), Muslim 22.74 %, Hindu 13.8 %, बौद्ध 6.77 %, सिखों 0.35 %, यहूदी 0.22 %, baha'i 0.11 %, अन्य धर्मों 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The coast सीमाएँ of कैलिफ़ोर्निया span from Humboldt County, California south to Santa Barbara County.
The other three coastal California mountain ranges are the अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ, Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains.
Physiographically, they are a section of the larger Pacific किनारा प्रांत, जिससे in turn are part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division.
UNESCO has शामिल the `` कैलिफ़ोर्निया coast सीमाएँ जीवमंडल आरक्षित `` in its Man and the Biosphere Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
Vehicles in use प्रति देश इससे 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant growth in BRIC.
संसार map of passenger cars per 1000 people
An automobile, autocar, motor car or car is a wheeled मोटर गाडी प्रयुक्त लिये transporting passengers, which also carries its own engine or motor.
Most definitions of the term specify that ऑटोमोबाइल हैं designed to चलाएं primarily on सड़कें, to have seating लिये one to eight people, to typically have four wheels, and to be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods.
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of electrified rail systems to denote a car which functions as a small locomotive but also provides space for passengers and baggage.
These locomotive cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban और intercity रेलरोड systems.
It was estimated in 2010 that the number of automobiles had risen to over 1 billion वाहनों, up इससे the 500 million of 1986.
The numbers are increasing rapidly, विशेषकर in China and India.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the United States, serving from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण Pacific, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he परोसा in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore रूज़वेल्ट ), और the पहला व्यक्ति born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- Protestant अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of सूअर आक्रमण, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट, the भवन of the बर्लिन Wall, the Space Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, special operation forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented by the दक्षिण वियतनामी government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, and segregation of rural दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he was shot and killed by Jack माणिक्य दो दिनों बाद, पहले a trial could take place.
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded कि ओसवाल्ड was the lone assassin.
However, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was संभवतः assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond षड्यंत्र, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's निजी जीवन रै come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret इससे the सामान्य public, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय ratings of U.S. presidents.
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( शीर्ष ) और ग्राफिक annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall, at James Madison University.
A सतर्क vm-1 आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ) / autonomous control unit ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system.
manufactured by Edwards, A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( FACP ), or Fire Alarm Control Unit ( FACU ), is the controlling घटक of a आग सचेतक प्रणाली.
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire, monitors their operational integrity and provides for automatic कंट्रोल of उपकरण, और हस्तांतरण of सूचना जरुरी to तैयारी the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence.
The panel may also supply electrical energy to operate any associated सेंसर, कंट्रोल, ट्रांसमीटर, or relay.
There are four basic types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, and multiplex systems.
This is a list of the first music वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on MTV 's first day, August 1, 1981.
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and अपलोड onto youtube in 2010 ( although only the first four hours were authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake International Airport and Colombo International विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट सेवारत the नगर of कोलोन, the अन्य is Ratmalana International Airport.
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern city of Hambantota is the अन्य international airport in Sri Lanka.
Bandaranaike अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo.
It is administered by Airport and Aviation सेवाएं ( श्री लंका ) Ltd.
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines, the नेशनल वाहक of श्री लंका, और mihin लंका, the budget airline of Sri Lanka.
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky और अभिनीत Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel, and Mila Kunis.
The plot revolves around a production of tchaikovsky 's swan Lake ballet by a prestigious New York City company.
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan, for which the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit, as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan, जिससे हैं qualities समाविष्ट by the नई आगमन लिली ( kunis ).
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of immense pressure when she finds herself स्पर्धा लिये the भाग, causing उसके to खोना उसके tenuous पकड़ on reality and descend into a living nightmare.
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of swan झील साथ an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies और the ख़्याल of होने haunted by a double, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
Aronofsky cites fyodor दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` The Double `` as another inspiration for the film.
The director also considered Black Swan a companion piece to his 2008 film The Wrestler, with both films involving demanding प्रदर्शन लिये अलग kinds of art.
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000, and after a brief attachment to सार्वभौमिक studios, Black Swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for अनेक महीने prior to फिल्मांकन, और notable figures from the ballet world helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation.
The film premiered as the opening film for the 67th Venice International Film Festival on September 1, 2010.
It had a limited रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य starting December 3, 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17.
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release, particularly for Portman 's performance and Aronofsky 's direction, and was a significant बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी, grossing $ 329 लाख worldwide.
The film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the फिल्मी, as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार in अनेक guilds और त्यौहार, जबकि Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director.
In addition, the फिल्मी itself received a nomination for Best Picture.
The world’s first ice-calorimeter, used in the winter of 1782-83, by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये और pierre-simon लाप्लास, to determine the ऊष्मा involved in various chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat.
These प्रयोग mark the foundation of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor, meaning heat ) is an object used for calorimetry, or the process of measuring the ऊष्मा of रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ or शारीरिक changes as well as heat capacity.
Differential scanning calorimeters, isothermal microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters और त्वरित रेट calorimeters हैं among the सबसे common types.
A सरल ऊष्मामापी बस consists of a थर्मामीटर संलग्न to a metal container full of water suspended above a combustion chamber.
to ढूँढें the enthalpy बदलें प्रति mole of a पदार्थ a in a प्रतिक्रिया between दो substances A and B, the substances are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted.
multiplying the तापमान बदलें by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances gives a value for the energy given off or absorbed during the reaction.
Dividing the energy change by how many moles of A were उपस्थित देता इसके enthalpy बदलें of प्रतिक्रिया.
This method is used primarily in academic teaching as it describes the सिद्धान्त of calorimetry.
It does not खाता लिये the ऊष्मा घाटा through the container or the heat capacity of the thermometer and container itself.
In जोड, the ऑब्जेक्ट लगाई अंदर the ऊष्मामापी shows कि the वस्तुएँ transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid, and the heat absorbed by the calorimeter and the liquid is equal to the heat given off by the metals.
A जोड़ी of green flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of other names throughout the संसार ) हैं a प्रकार of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल परिस्थितियों, ऐसे as outside or at the beach.
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by a y-shaped डोरी that passes between the first and second toes and around either side of the foot.
They may also be आयोजित to the पैर साथ a single strap over the front of the foot rather than a thong.
The नाम `` flip-flop '' originated क्युकी of the sound that is made by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking.
This style of footwear has been worn by the people of many cultures throughout the world, originating as जल्दी as the प्राचीन उन्होंने in 4,000 B.C.
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri, जिससे became लोकप्रिय बाद संसार युद्ध ii जब सैनिको returning to the United States brought them back.
They became popular in casual settings during the 1960s, 1990s, और 2000s, और कुछ किस्में have भी found their way into more formal attire, despite criticism.
The use of flip-flops can result in many pains and injuries, including ankle sprains and टूटा हड्डियों.
Some individuals who walk for long periods report pain in the feet, ankles, और निम्नतर legs.
The lack of support provided by flip-flops प्रायः परिणाम in over-pronation चोटों, caused by the foot slipping inwards further than normal.
This can lead to चपटा फीट और tendonitis.
Other injuries that may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed nature, such as stubbed toes, कटौती, and bruises.
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles, as well as those कि have a डोरी कि is नहीं कैनवास और कि comes back almost to the ankle.
The owners of Hanjin Osaka, seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008, declared general average following an विस्फोट in the जलयान 's इंजन रूम on.
The law of general average is a legal principle of maritime law according to जिससे सब पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency.
In the exigencies of जोखिमों faced at समुद्र, क्रू सदस्यों often have precious little time in which to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time, there arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo landed safely would be called on to contribute a portion, आधारित upon a share or प्रतिशत, to the व्यापारी or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
While general average traces its origins in प्राचीन मेरीटाइम law, still it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries.
The first संहिताकरण of सामान्य average was the York Antwerp Rules of 1890.
American कंपनियाँ accepted it in 1949.
General औसत requires तीन तत्व जिससे हैं clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
`` 1st.
A common danger : a danger in which vessel, cargo and crew all participate ; a खतरे निकट और जाहिर 'inevitable, ' except by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting away, of some portion of the संयुक्त चिंता लिये the purpose of बचने इस निकट peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril must be successful ''.
Example Polish call लिये टीकाकरण against Diphtheria and Tetanus.
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations, including the समय of सब doses, जिससे may be either अनुशंसित or compulsory, depending on the country of residence.
A vaccine is an antigenic तैयारी प्रयुक्त to उपज क्रियाशील प्रतिरक्षण to a बीमारी, in अनुक्रम to prevent or reduce the effects of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness, either to उपज sufficient आरंभिक प्रतिरक्षा जवाब or to बूस्ट जवाब कि fades over time.
For उदाहरण, tetanus vaccine boosters are often recommended every 10 years.
Vaccine schedules are developed by सरकारी एजेंसियों or physicians समूह to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a locality while minimizing the number of health care system interactions.
Over the past two decades, the recommended vaccination schedule has grown rapidly and become more जटिल as अनेक नई टीके have महरूम developed.
कुछ टीके हैं अनुशंसित तभी in certain areas ( countries, subnational areas, or at-risk populations ) where a disease is common.
For instance, yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of French Guiana, is recommended in certain regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease.
In developing countries, टीका सुझाव also take into account the level of health care access, the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage.
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life and uses vaccines which cost over $ 700 including प्रशासन लागत जबकि a विकासशील देश उपयोग a अनुसूची providing टीके in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25.
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care, the lower cost of many टीके provided to developing nations, and that more expensive vaccines, often for less common diseases, are not utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox टीका was the only one administered to children.
By the early 1950s, children routinely received four vaccines, for protection against ( डिप्थीरिया, pertussis, टेटनस, पोलियो, और smallpox ), and as many as five shots by two years of age.
Since the mid-1980s, अनेक vaccines have been added to the schedule.
, the US Centers for Disease Control and रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) अभी अनुशंसा टीकाकरण विरूद्ध at least fourteen diseases.
By two years of आयु, u.S. children प्राप्त as many as 24 vaccine injections, and might receive up to five shots during one visit to the doctor.
The use of combination vaccine products means that,, the United किंगडम 's immunization कार्यक्रम consists of 10 injections by the age of two, rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection.
Two revellers नृत्य in the streets.
The form of dancing is called `` wining '' ( घुमावदार ) सुनाया wine-ing
A Music ट्रक entertains the crowd on the streets.
Trucks हैं an अभिन्न भाग of the गली parade, featuring live performances or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual event held on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले राख बुधवार, और is खूब ज्ञात for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations.
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event on the islands ' cultural and tourism calendar, with numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the गली परेड on कार्निवल सोमवार और मंगलवार.
it is कहा कि if the आइलैंडर्स are not celebrating it, then they are preparing for it, while reminiscing about the past year 's festival.
The heart of the musical celebration has been calypso ; recently soca has replaced कैलिप्सो as the सबसे मनाये type of music.
वेशभूषा, stickfighting and limbo competitions are also important components of the festival.
कार्निवल as it is celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago is also celebrated in cities worldwide.
These including Toronto 's Caribana, Miami 's मियामी कार्निवल, ह्यूस्टन carifest, London 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few.
Carnival was created when वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी स्लेव mimicked their French owners who where known for their lavish costumes balls.
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and confined to their quarters, slaves combined elements from उनके अपना संस्कृतियों to उनके निपुण 's fete.
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab jab or jab molassie ( शैतानों ), Midnight Robbers, Imps, Lagahroo, Soucouyant, La Diablesse and Demons.
With the abolition of गुलामी in 1838, freed africans took उनके संस्करण of Carnival to the streets through expression of drums, riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad, Carnival evolved into what we know today.
the नगर of शिकागो, इलिनोइस held a nonpartisan mayoral election on Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
Incumbent महापौर रिचर्ड M. डाले, a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो had been in office since 1989, did not seek a seventh term as mayor.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 याचिका हस्ताक्षर by November 22, 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot.
अप्रैल 5, 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election date if no candidate received an absolute majority.
Rahm Emanuel won the रेस लिये महापौर साथ अधिक than 55 % of the vote.
He was inaugurated on May 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी indie pop band Foster the People.
It was released as the group 's debut single in September 2010, and the following year was included on their EP Foster the लोगों और उनके debut album Torches.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's भेदन hit और थी एक of the most popular songs of 2011.
The song was written and अंकित by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he थी working as a commercial jingle writer.
Contrasting with the upbeat musical संयोजन, the गीत describe the homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth.
The track प्राप्त considerable ध्यान बाद it थी posted ऑनलाइन in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड, और it helped the समूह गार्नर a multi-album रिकार्ड सौदे साथ कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड imprint startime अंतरराष्ट्रीय.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011, after receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations, the song crossed-over onto समकालीन hit रेडियो स्टेशन.
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the United States, making it the पहला Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
The song was widely praised by critics, and it has been licensed for use in a चौड़ी दायरा of popular media since its release.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a Grammy Award nomination for Best पॉप duo/group Performance.
The State Fair of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया is an annual state fair for West Virginia.
It is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in Fairlea, near lewisburg, वेस्ट वर्जिनिया in the southeastern part of the state.
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for carnivals and exhibitions, a घोड़ा track, grandstands, और अनेक exhibition buildings.
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and, until 2006, free camping was also available in a विशाल फ़ील्ड साथ running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
Campers are now चार्ज a छोटी fee.
The White House, the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the President of the United राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the presidency is the highest political दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence और मान्यता.
The president is भी the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President more than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to जिससे किसी else थी निर्वाचित may be elected more than once.
Upon the मौत, इस्तीफा, or removal from office of an incumbent President, the Vice President assumes the office.
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` प्राकृतिक born '' नागरिक of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States संविधान, जिससे took प्रभाव on कूच 4, 1789.
लिये अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland परोसा दो non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison, zachary टेलर, वारेन G. हार्डिंग, और Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the चुनावी कॉलेज.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into उसके चौथी पद in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected after महिलाओं gained voting rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed दफ्तर.
जॉन F. कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष of रोमन Catholic faith, and the current president, Barack Obama, is the first president of African descent.
`` लोम्बार्डी Trophy '' redirects here.
For the पुरस्कार awarded annually to the बेहतरीन कॉलेज football lineman or linebacker, see Lombardi Award.
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded प्रत्येक साल to the जीतना टोली of the National Football League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
The ट्रॉफी is नामित in honor of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi.
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest लोगों in the संसार in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध, ऐसे as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
the longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent van Gogh when वो थी 12 or 13.
This led to news media ध्यान in 1985, बाद Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation मिला दस्तावेज़ीकरण for Calment 's age, beyond any reasonable question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura, who फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी और is आयु as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, Kimura, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest जीना man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman has been -year-old misao okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
The People 's Court is an American arbitration-based वास्तविकता अदालत show, currently presided over by retired Florida State Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian, in which small claims disputes are handled.
The People 's Court is the first court show to use binding मध्यस्थता, introducing the स्वरूप into the genre in 1981.
The system has been duplicated by सबसे of the show 's successors in the judicial genre.
Moreover, The People 's Court is the पहला लोकप्रिय, long-running वास्तविकता in the judicial genre.
It was preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the genre ; these short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों यहूद तभी loosely सम्बन्धित to न्यायिक कार्यवाही, मगर लिये एक : पैरोल ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings.
Prior to The People 's Court, the vast majority of TV courtroom shows used actors, and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ).
Among examples of these types of court shows include प्रसिद्ध जूरी Trials and Your Witness.
The People 's Court has had two चिहृ जीवनदान.
The दिखाएँ 's पहला जीवन थी presided over solely by former Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner.
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September 14, 1981, until May 21, 1993, जब the दिखाएँ थी रद्द due to low ratings.
इस बाएँ the दिखाएँ साथ a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons.
The show was taped in Los Angeles दौरान इसके पहला जीवन.
After being रद्द, reruns aired until September 9, 1994.
On September 8, 1997, after being out of production for four years, the लोगों 's अदालत थी revived लिये a दूसरी life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program.
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter, which he maintained for 2 seasons from the 1997–98 season through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the उपस्थित life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 season, husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over न्यायधीश जुडी ) और पूर्व नई York State Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch.
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ).
शुरूआत in वसन्त 2001, फ्लोरिडा judge Marilyn Milian took over The People 's Court and has presided over the show ever since.
Once milian completes the 2012–13 ऋतु, she will have served as longest arbiter over the series with 12 and a half seasons.
As of the present, however, उसके सालो on the program tie Wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 television ऋतु, the लोगों 's Courts 2nd/present life outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons.
While the show taped in New York City for the first 15 seasons of its second life, it अभी टेपों in stamford, कनेक्टिकट as of the 2012-13 season.
On September 3, 2012, The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered its 16th ऋतु ( 28th overall ऋतु ).
With 28 total seasons, The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom कार्यक्रम पीछे the ongoing Divorce Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य.
It became the 45th राज्य admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, और the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front, centering on Salt झील नगर, leaving विशाल expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited and making the population the sixth most urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, Idaho on the north, Arizona on the south, and Nevada on the west.
It also छू a कोने of नई Mexico on the southeast.
Utah is the सबसे religiously homogeneous state in the Union.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or LDS ( Mormons ), which greatly प्रभाव यूटा संस्कृति and daily life.
The world headquarters of The Church of यीशु मसीह of latter-day संतो ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital.
The state is a बीच of transportation, education, information technology and research, government services, mining, and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates, Utah is the fifth fastest-growing राज्य in the United States as of 2012.
St. George, थी the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United States from 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` best state to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking माप सहित विभिन्न आर्थिक, जीवनशैली, और health-related outlook metrics.
Coldwater is a छोटी कस्बा in टेट County, Mississippi.
It is in the मेम्फिस Metropolitan Area.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,674 at the 2000 census.
The hard तालु is a thin horizontal bony plate of the skull, located in the roof of the mouth.
It spans the मेहराब formed by the upper teeth.
It is formed by the palatine प्रक्रम of the maxilla और आड़ा plate of palatine bone.
It forms a partition between the nasal passages and the मुँह.
भी on the अग्रवर्ती portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx.
This partition is continued deeper into the mouth by a fleshy एक्सटेंशन called the soft palate.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; भी tenakh, tenak, Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is also known as the Masoretic टेक्स्ट or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', also known as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is read '', is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral परंपरा passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
गम्भीरता नाका in Germany
Driving under the influence ( DUI ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), शराबी ड्राइविंग, नशे ड्राइविंग, पेय ड्राइविंग, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence, drinking and driving, or impaired driving is the crime of driving a motor vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '', or `` BAC '' ).
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of मशीनरी while affected by drinking alcohol or taking other drugs, including, but not limited to prescription drugs.
This is a दण्ड offense in most nations.
Convictions do not necessarily involve वास्तविक driving of the vehicle.
In most jurisdictions a मापन ऐसे as a रक्त दारू सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर, ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol.
In some jurisdictions, there is an aggravated category of the ठोकर at a उच्चतर स्तर e.g. 0.12 %.
In most countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can be heavily fined, as in फ़्रांस, in जोड to होने दिए a lengthy prison sentence.
Some jobs have their own rules and bac हद, for example commercial pilot, and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example, the state of California has a 0.08 % BAC limit, which is lowered to 0.04 % if the ऑपरेटर holds a वाणिज्यिक ड्राइवर 's license.
The California bac सीमा is 0.01 % लिये those younger than 21 years of age and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction.
Some large corporations have उनके अपना नियम ; संघ प्रशांत रेलरोड रै उनके अपना BAC limit of 0.02 % that, if violated during a random test or a for-cause test — for example, after a traffic accident — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in sentencing laws that enforce strict guidelines on sentencing, differing इससे पिछला अभ्यास जहाँ थाना समय थी घटाया or suspended after sentencing had been issued.
Some jurisdictions have judicial guidelines requiring a अनिवार्य न्यूनतम वाक्य.
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive fees to forfetiruree of your license plates and in some serious circumstances, your vehicle.
A drunk driving simulator in montréal, Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called, depending on the jurisdiction, driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ), driving under intense influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), operating under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ), operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( omvi ), ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the संयुक्त influence of दारू and/or अन्य दवाएँ, ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ].
अनेक ऐसे कानून लागू भी to motorcycling, बोटिंग, piloting aircraft, use of motile farm equipment such as tractors and combines, riding horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, possibly with different BAC level than driving.
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the vehicle used, such as BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ), which may carry a lighter sentence.
In the United States, local law enforcement agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for driving under the influence of alcohol in 1996, compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983.
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI अपराधियों यहूद in थाना or jail, down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from US कस्टम और किनारा सुरक्षा boarding a ship
Law प्रवर्तन in the संयुक्त राज्य is एक of तीन major components of the criminal justice system of the United States, along with courts and corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the अलग समूह कि मेक up the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली आधारित on उनके अपराधों deterrence purpose, each component operates independently from one another.
However, the judiciary is vested with the शक्ति to मेक विधिक determinations regarding the conduct of the other two components.
Apart from maintaining order and service functions, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected criminal कार्यकलाप और the referral of the परिणाम of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts.
Law enforcement, to varying degrees at different levels of government and in different agencies, is also commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring दण्ड कार्यकलाप और of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants, writs and other orders of the courts.
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and other threats to पब्लिक सुरक्षा ; the सुरक्षा of निश्चित पब्लिक सुविधाएं और अवसंरचना ; the मेंटेनेंस of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28, 1968 ), best known under the stage name Chayanne, is a Puerto Rican Latin pop सिंगर और कर्ता.
As a सोलो कलाकार, chayanne रै released 21 solo albums and sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
`` World War हल्क '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक कि ran through a self titled limited series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007, featuring the Hulk.
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk, with Greg Pak as writer and John romita, jr. as penciller, और तीन अन्य सीमित श्रेणी : संसार युद्ध हल्क : सामने लकीर, संसार युद्ध हल्क : Gamma Corps, and World War Hulk : X-Men.
It also भागा through several other Marvel comics series.
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम फ़्यूरी, the Hulk 's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati.
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26, 1907 – June 11, 1979 ), better known by his stage name John Wayne, was an अमरीकी फिल्मी कर्ता, director and producer.
An Academy Award -winner, Wayne was among the top box office draws for three decades, और थी नामित the all-time शीर्ष money-making star.
An enduring American icon, he epitomized खुरदरा masculinity and is famous for his demeanor, including his distinctive calm voice, walk, and height.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa but his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles area when he थी चार सालो बूढ़ा.
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football scholarship to USC as a result of a bodysurfing दुर्घटना.
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation, he ज़्यादातर appeared in छोटी बिट भाग.
उसके पहला अग्रणी भूमिका आए in the वाइडस्क्रीन एपिक the बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ), which led to leading roles in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of them in the western genre.
His career rose to further heights in 1939, साथ जॉन घाट 's Stagecoach making him an instant superstar.
Wayne would go on to स्टार in 142 pictures, primarily typecast in Western films.
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ), which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ), in जिससे he plays a सिविल युद्ध दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ), playing a शेरिफ साथ डीन मार्टिन ; True Grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous U.S. Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ), his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
Wayne moved to Orange County, California in the 1960s, and was a prominent Republican in Hollywood, supporting anti-communist स्थितियाँ.
He died of पेट कर्कट in 1979.
In June 1999, the American Film संस्थान नामित वेन 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time.
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ), was an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution.
His achievements include improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support लिये copernicanism.
गैलीलियो रै महरूम पुकारा the `` पिता of आधुनिक observational astronomy ``, the `` father of modern physics ``, the `` father of science '', and `` the Father of Modern Science ''.
His योगदान to observational खगोलशास्त्र शामिल the telescopic पुष्टि of the phases of Venus, the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour ), and the observation and analysis of sunspots.
Galileo also worked in applied science and technology, inventing an improved military compass and other instruments.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial भीतर उसके आजीवन, जब सबसे subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system.
He met with opposition from astronomers, who doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed तारकीय parallax.
The matter was investigated by the रोमन inquisition in 1615, and they concluded that it could be supported as only a possibility, not an established fact.
Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, which appeared to attack Pope Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the Jesuits, who had both supported Galileo up until this point.
He was tried by the inquisition, मिला `` ओजस्वी suspect of heresy '', forced to recant, and spent the rest of his life under house arrest.
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he लिखा एक of उसके finest works, दो नई sciences, in जिससे he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier, on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials.
55 '' lg OLED TV showcased at CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप oled lighting panel developed by Lumiotec
demonstration of a flexible OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in जिससे the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current.
This layer of organic सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between two electrodes.
Generally, at least one of these electrodes is पारदर्शी.
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as television screens, computer monitors, portable systems such as mobile फोन, हैंडहेल्ड खेल consoles और गुस्से.
A major area of research is the development of white OLED devices for use in solid-state lighting अनुप्रयोग.
There are two main families of OLEDs : those based on small अणुओं और those employing polymers.
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical cell or LEC, जिससे रै a थोड़ा different mode of operation.
OLED displays can use either passive-matrix ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix संबोधित योजनाएं.
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to switch each individual pixel on or off, but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes.
An OLED प्रदर्शक works बगैर a backlight.
Thus, it can display deep black स्तर और can be thinner and lighter than a liquid crystal display ( LCD ).
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room an OLED screen can achieve a उच्चतर कंट्रास्ट अनुपात than an एलसीडी, whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal, Canada, showing its French मुखाग्र ( अंग्रेज़ी रिवर्स ) और the French term lait de poule ( literally, `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally made with milk and/or cream, शुगर, और whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ).
ब्रांडी, rum, व्हिस्की, bourbon, vodka, or a combination of liquors are often added.
the समाप्त सेवारत is often garnished with a sprinkling of ground cinnamon or nutmeg.
it थी also known as the egg milk punch.
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout the United States and Canada, और is प्रायः संबद्ध with Christmas.
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to खाना or drinks such as coffee and tea.
Eggnog as a custard can also be used as an बर्फ मलाई आधार.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish pasty, and in the United राज्य as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked पेस्ट्री, a परंपरागत variety of which is particularly associated with Cornwall, the westernmost county in England.
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of मांस और सब्जियां, बगैर मांस in शाकाहारी versions, on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling, crimping the edge to form a seal.
बाद बेकिंग, the result is a raised semicircular comestible.
The traditional Cornish pasty, which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe, is भर साथ बीफ, sliced or diced आलू, swede ( भी ज्ञात as a पीला शलजम or rutabaga – referred to in कॉर्नवॉल as शलजम ) और प्याज, seasoned साथ नमक और pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the food most associated with Cornwall, it is regarded as the national dish, and it accounts लिये 6 % of the cornish खाना अर्थव्यवस्था.
Pasties with many different fillings are made ; some shops specialise in selling सब sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty हैं unclear, हालांकि वहीँ हैं अनेक references to them throughout historical documents and fiction.
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of Cornish miners, and variations can be मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the United States, Mexico and elsewhere.
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic बेचैन system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic nervous system : the others being the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
Its general action is to mobilize the body 's nervous system fight-or-flight response.
It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain समस्थापन.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस, ऐसे as mobile phones, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The सुरक्षित डिजिटल standard is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
SD technologies have महरूम implemented in अधिक than 400 brands across dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format includes four card परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन different form factors.
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors are the original size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' आकार ( देखिए उदाहरण ).
There are अनेक combinations of form factors and device families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller कार्ड in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept पुरानी SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a संचिका system the host device can not navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the host device be designed for the input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड provides.
The organization of the card was बदला starting साथ the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the SDA had मानकीकृत a विधि of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and assure उपयोक्ता of संगतता.
The following is a List of critics of the New Deal.
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born February 17, 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy, is an American stand-up हास्य, कर्ता, देश म्यूज़िक कलाकार, voice actor, and former radio personality.
He was one of the members of the Blue कॉलर कॉमेडी दौरे, a कॉमेडी troupe जिससे शामिल Bill Engvall, Ron White, and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ).
Whitney has released seven comedy albums, of which three have been certified सुनहरा by the riaa for shipments of 500,000 copies.
In addition, he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies, as well as in the films Larry the केबल guy : स्वास्थ्य इंस्पेक्टर, डेल्टा Farce, and Witless Protection, as well as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` git-r-done ! '' is भी the शीर्षक of उसके book.
On January 26, 2010, the TV चैनल इतिहास घोषित कि it थी ordering a series starring Whitney called Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy, in which he would explore the country and immerse himself in different lifestyles, jobs, and hobbies.
The first एपीसोड of the श्रेणी aired on February 8, 2011.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम और phosphate.
In humans, the most important सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं विटामिन D2 and vitamin D3.
cholecalciferol ( विटामिन d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन D2 ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence इसके उपनाम, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although विटामिन d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त it in their diet. )
An सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as साथ अन्य यौगिकों commonly पुकारा vitamins, vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet, and it is believed that संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, यूएसए, लिये the राशि of सूर्य एक्सपोज़र जरूरी to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet, although कि होगा rarely occur in अभ्यास.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि is measured in सीरम to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular फलन and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health और a घटी in mortality in elderly women.
Standard रूप of the आवधिक table.
The colors represent different categories of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements, organized on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements are प्रस्तुत in order of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ).
The मानक रूप of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of elements, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into चार आयताकार blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the कालम of the s-, d-, और p-blocks are called groups, with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, कोई ऐसे तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that होता be अपेक्षित to भरण gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the तत्व in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been विस्तारित और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally, although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have तभी been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have also been produced in laboratories.
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, वर्जिन आइलैंड्स ), as of jan. 1, 2013.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, मजदूर हैं generally entitled to be paid no less than the statutory minimum wage.
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 प्रति घंटा, जबकि कुछ राज्य और municipalities have set minimum wage levels higher than the federal level, with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013.
Among those paid by the hour in 2012, 1.6 लाख यहूद reported as earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage.
About 2.0 million were reported as earning wages below the minimum.
Together, these 3.6 million मजदूर साथ मजदूरी at or below the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers.
A selection of Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor स्टोर in decatur, Georgia
Evan विलियम्स bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of अमरीकी whiskey – a barrel-aged आसुत spirit made primarily from corn.
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an area known as Old Bourbon, around what is अभी bourbon County, Kentucky ( which, in turn, was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
It has been produced since the 18th सदी.
While it may be made anywhere in the United States, it is strongly associated with the अमरीकी दक्षिण in सामान्य, and Kentucky in particular.
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length पोर्ट्रेट of a स्त्री by the इतालवी कलाकार Leonardo da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as `` the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world. ''
The painting, thought to be a पोर्ट्रेट of लिसा gherardini, the wife of Francesco del Giocondo, is in oil on a poplar panel, and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506.
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the French Republic, on स्थाई प्रदर्शक at the musée du louvre in पेरिस चूंकि 1797.
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression, which is frequently described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19 January 1949 – 26 September 2003 ), was an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter and musician.
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic मिक्सर of musical शैलियाँ on उसके एल्बम, combining soul, jazz, rock, pop, reggae and blues.
He found success both in his solo career and in the musical अधिनियम the Power Station, and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US.
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and `` Simply Irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing women with pale faces, dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick, which resembled the women in the आर्ट of पैट्रिक nagel, an कलाकार लोकप्रिय in the 1980s.
sharp-suited, his involvement in the music industry commenced in the 1960s, covered five decades and included a spell with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two Grammy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन पुरूष चट्टान गायन प्रदर्शन, an MTV Video Music Award, and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male.
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial और venous vessels throughout the body.
This ranges from धमनियों सेवारत the brain to those bringing blood to the lungs, kidneys, arms and legs.
The Champs-Élysées decorated with ध्वज लिये bastille Day
Horseman of the French Republican Guard during the 2007 सैन्य परेड on the Champs-Élysées.
Prise de la bastille by jean-pierre-louis-laurent Houel
Bastille Day is the name given in english-speaking देशों to the French National Day, which is celebrated on the 14th of July each year.
In France, it is formally पुकारा la fête nationale ( ; the नेशनल Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ).
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération, held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison थी देखी as a symbol of the uprising of the modern nation, and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic, during the French Revolution.
festivities और आधिकारिक ceremonies are held all over France.
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 जुलाई, on the champs-élysées एवेन्यू in पेरिस in front of the President of the Republic, French officials and foreign guests.
The United States of America ( यूएसए or u.s.A. ), commonly पुकारा the संयुक्त States ( US or U.S. ) or America, is a federal republic consisting of fifty states and a federal district.
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of Washington, D.C. are in central North अमेरिका between कनाडा और Mexico.
The state of Alaska is west of Canada and east of Russia across the Bering Strait, and the state of हवाई is in the mid-North Pacific.
The देश भी रै पाँच populated and nine unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean.
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 लाख लोगों, the संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or fourth-largest country by total area and the third-largest by both land area and population.
It is one of the world 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale आव्रजन इससे अनेक देशों.
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also extremely विविध, साथ रेगिस्तान, plains, forests, and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species.
paleoindians migrated इससे एशिया to कया is अभी the United States mainland around 15,000 years ago.
After 1500, बूढ़ा संसार रोगों introduced by Europeans greatly reduced their populations.
European colonization began around 1600 and came ज़्यादातर इससे England.
The United राज्य उभरा इससे तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard.
Disputes between Great ब्रिटेन और the अमरीकी colonies led to the American Revolution.
On July 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously जारी the घोषणा of Independence, which established the United States of America.
The American Revolutionary War, which ended with the recognition of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, थी the पहला कामयाब युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता against a European colonial empire.
The current संविधान थी अपनाया on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have since been added to the Constitution.
The first ten amendments, collectively named the Bill of अधिकारों, यहूद ratified in 1791 and guarantee many fundamental civil rights and freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny, the United States embarked on a vigorous विस्तार आरपार उत्तर America throughout the 19th century.
This involved displacing देशी जनजातियों, acquiring नई territories, and gradually admitting new states.
The American Civil War ended legalized गुलामी in the United States.
By the end of the उन्नीसवीं सदी, the संयुक्त राज्य extended into the Pacific Ocean, and its economy was the world 's largest.
The Spanish–American युद्ध और पुष्टि the देश 's status as a global military power.
The United States emerged from as a global superpower, the first country with nuclear weapons, और a स्थाई सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Security Council.
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union left the संयुक्त राज्य as the एकमात्र महाशक्ति.
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy, with an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 खरब 19 % of वैश्विक जीडीपी at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although America 's wealth inequality was भी क्रमित उच्चतम among oecd देशों by the World Bank.
The economy is fueled by an abundance of natural resources, a well-developed अवसंरचना, और ऊँची उत्पादकता ; और जबकि इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is माना post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers.
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending, and is a leading economic, political, and cultural force in the world, as खूब as a नेता in वैज्ञानिक research and technological innovation.
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States, currently featuring 68 कॉलेज बास्केट टीमों, to determine the national championship of the major college basketball teams.
The tournament, organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ), was created during 1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches, and was the विचार of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen.
Played mostly during March, it is known informally as March Madness or the Big Dance, and has become one of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध सालाना sporting events in the United States.
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle Organizing कमेटी लिये starting the कूच Madness celebration during 1984.
The tournament teams include champions from 31 प्रभाग i सम्मेलनों ( जिससे प्राप्त स्वचालित बोलियों ), और 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' टीमों हैं चुनी by an NCAA selection committee, as detailed below.
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a single elimination `` bracket '', which predetermines, जब a टोली विन्स a game, which team it will face next.
Each team is `` seeded '', or क्रमित, भीतर its region.
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked teams, the टूर्नामेंट occurs दौरान the कोर्स of three weekends, at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States.
Lower-ranked teams are placed in the bracket विरूद्ध उच्चतर क्रमित टीमों.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a round of 64, to a `` Sweet Sixteen '', and for the last weekend of the Tournament a Final Four ; the Final Four is usually played during the first weekend of April.
These four teams, one from each region, then compete in one location for the नेशनल चैंपियनशिप.
The tournament has been at least partially televised चूंकि 1969.
Presently, the games are reported by सीबीएस, TBS, TNT, and truTV by the trade-name NCAA March Madness.
Since 2011, all games are available for viewing देशभर.
As television कवरेज रै grown, so too has the tournament 's popularity.
presently, लाखो of Americans `` fill out a bracket '', predicting winners of all 67 games.
With 11 national शीर्षक, ucla रै the रिकार्ड for the most NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
The University of Kentucky is second, with 8 national titles, while Indiana University and the University of North Carolina are tied for तीसरा साथ 5 नेशनल शीर्षक.
Duke University ranks fifth with 4 national titles.
A sample of synthetic मोटर आयल
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical यौगिकों कि हैं artificially made ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically परिवर्धित petroleum components rather than whole crude oil, but can also be synthesized from other raw materials.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined इससे पेट्रोलियम when operating in extremes of temperature, because, in general, it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties than those found in traditional mineral oils.
Aircraft jet engines, for example, require the use of synthetic oils, whereas वायुयान पिस्टन इंजन do not.
Jackass is an American वास्तविकता श्रेणी, originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002, featuring people performing various dangerous, crude self-injuring stunts and pranks.
The show served as a launchpad for the television and acting careers of Bam Margera, steve-o, और भी जॉनी Knoxville, who previously had only a few minor acting roles.
Since 2002, three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV corporate sibling सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें, continuing the मताधिकार बाद इसके run on television.
The show sparked several spin-offs सहित चिरायु la bam, wildboyz, Homewrecker, Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid.
The show placed # 68 on Entertainment साप्ताहिक `` New TV Classics '' list.
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3, 1952 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, लेखक, टेलीविज़न producer, director, and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party.
Barr began her career in stand-up कॉमेडी at क्लब पहले gaining fame for her role in the sitcom Roseanne.
The show was a hit और lasted nine seasons, from 1988 to 1997.
She won both an Emmy and a Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her work on the show.
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class घरेलू देवी '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism.
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and Russia, Barr was the oldest of four children in a working-class Jewish Salt Lake नगर परिवार ; वो थी भी क्रियाशील in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she married Bill Pentland, with whom she had three children, before divorcing in 1990 and marrying हास्य tom अर्नाल्ड लिये चार years.
Controversy arose जब वो संग `` the star-spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game, followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting.
After her sitcom ended, she launched her own talk show, The roseanne दिखाएँ, जिससे aired इससे 1998 to 2000.
In 2005, she returned to stand-up कॉमेडी साथ a world tour.
In 2011, she starred in an unscripted tv दिखाएँ, roseanne 's nuts, कि lasted from July to September of that year, about her life on a Hawaiian farm.
In जल्दी 2012, Barr announced her candidacy for the Presidential nomination of the Green Party.
Barr lost the नामांकन to Jill Stein.
She then sought the presidential nomination of the Peace and Freedom Party, जिससे वो जीती on अगस्त 4, 2012.
barr प्राप्त 61,971 मत in the general election, placing sixth overall.
Francesco Albani 's 17th century Baptism of मसीह is a ठेठ चित्रण with the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
The baptism of यीशु marks the शुरूआत of his public ministry.
This event is recorded in the canonical gospels of मैथ्यू, Mark and Luke.
John 's gospel does not describe Jesus ' baptism, but John the Baptist करता गवाही of the अन्य बाते in.
In the New Testament, जॉन the बैपटिस्ट preached the बपतिस्मा of तौबा लिये the remission of पापों ( ), and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ).
In so doing he was preparing the way for यीशु.
Jesus came to the Jordan River where he was baptized by जॉन.
The baptismal scene includes the आकाश खोलने, a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit, and a voice from heaven saying, `` This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus was baptized by John as an ऐतिहासिक इवेंट to जिससे a ऊँची उपाधि of certainty can be assigned.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus सबसे विद्वानों दृश्य it as एक of the two historically certain facts about him, and often use it as the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus.
The baptism is one of the five major माइलस्टोन in the इन्जील कथा of the जीवन of यीशु, the अन्य being the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension.
Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus as an important event and a basis for the ईसाई रीति of बपतिस्मा ( देखिए भी ).
In Eastern Christianity, Jesus ' baptism is commemorated on 6 January, the feast of Epiphany.
In the Roman Catholic Church, the Anglican Communion, the Lutheran चर्च और कुछ अन्य पश्चिमी denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the Lord.
In Roman catholicism, the बपतिस्मा of Jesus is one of the Luminous Mysteries sometimes added to the Rosary.
It is a Trinitarian feast in the पूर्वी Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is a form of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely रूप cherry-colored पारदर्शी समाधान in जल.
Vitamin B12, vitamin b12 or विटामिन b-12, भी पुकारा cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is एक of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, विशेषकर affecting डीएनए synthesis and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
neither fungi, plants, nor animals are capable of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the एंजाइमों required for its synthesis, although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be उत्पादित industrially तभी through बैक्टीरियल fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a क्लास of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically विरल तत्व cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the साइनाइड, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
अधिक recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी of ये is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the पेट जिम्मेदार लिये secreting मूलभूत factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal अवशोषण of b12, so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर, as देखी in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 युद्ध फिल्मी उत्पादित, निर्देशित और co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers and stars Matthew Modine, विंसेंट d'onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, Arliss Howard, and Adam Baldwin.
The फिल्मी फ़ॉलो a प्लाटून of u.S. Marines through their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War.
The film 's title refers to the full metal jacket गोली प्रयुक्त by infantry riflemen.
The film प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim.
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay लिये kubrick, माइकल Herr and Gustav Hasford.
In 2001, the American Film Institute placed Full मेटल जैकेट at # 95 in their `` AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a celebrity news website कि debuted on नवम्बर 8, 2005.
It was a collaboration between AOL and Telepictures Productions, a division of Warner भाईs., जबतक समय warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained संबद्ध साथ एओएल न्यूज and has the AOL News logo affixed in the upper right corner.
The name TMZ stands for the historic `` studio zone `` or 30-mile zone radius from the चौराहे of वेस्ट बेवर्ली Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles.
TMZ 's managing editor is Harvey Levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist जो थी previously a विधिक विशेषज्ञ लिये the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV.
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however, Levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes अदा स्त्रोत लिये लीड on कहानियां ''.
Levin has stated कि `` सबकुछ is researched and vetted for accuracy. ''
A companion TV श्रेणी, tmz on TV, debuted on September 10, 2007.
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by केविन विलियमसन, directed by Wes Craven and written by Ehren Kruger, starring Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette.
It was released on February 4, 2000 as the third installment in the Scream film series.
The events of the स्टोरी हैं नियत तीन सालो बाद those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the previous two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre with comedy and `` whodunit `` mystery while satirizing the cliché of फिल्मी trilogies.
Unlike the पिछला चीख films, वहीँ थी an increased जोर on comedic तत्व और the हिंसा और हॉरर थी reduced in response to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre.
The फिल्मी थी the concluding chapter of the Scream series until it was revived with a sequel, Scream 4, in 2011.
विलियमसन provided a five-page outline for two sequels to Scream when auctioning his original script, hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's commitments to other प्रोजेक्ट meant he थी असमर्थ to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties were undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's notes.
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to direct and score the film respectively as they था साथ the पिछला two series entries.
Production was troubled with script rewrites, साथ पृष्ठों sometimes only ready on the day of filming, and scheduling difficulties with the main cast.
चीख 3 performed दोनो financially और critically worse than its preceding films, earning over $ 161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite negative criticism the film किया प्राप्त तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the perfect end to the Scream trilogy.
As of 2012, the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर America, following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2.
The film 's soundtrack was well-received, बिता चौदह सप्ताह on the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of # 32.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, also called painful arc syndrome, supraspinatus syndrome, swimmer 's shoulder, and thrower 's shoulder, is a clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator कफ मांसपेशियां become irritated और inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
This can result in पीड़ा, weakness and loss of movement at the shoulder.
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC Comics इससे जनवरी 1997 to अप्रैल 2006 featuring the Justice League.
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of यूरोपीय settlements इससे the प्रारंभ of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States.
In the late 16th सदी, इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, स्पेन और the Netherlands launched major colonization programs in eastern North America.
Small early attempts—such as the अंग्रेज़ी खोया उपनिवेश of roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the death rate of the first arrivals was very high.
Nevertheless successful colonies were established.
यूरोपीय settlers came from a variety of social and religious groups.
No aristocrats settled permanently, लकिन a क्रमांक of adventurers, सैनिको, किसानो, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland, the Swedes and Finns of New Sweden, the English Quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया, the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of नई इंग्लैण्ड, the अंग्रेज़ी settlers of jamestown, और the `` worthy ग़रीब '' of जॉर्जिया, आए to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social, religious, political and economic styles.
Occasionally one colony took कंट्रोल of another ( दौरान wars between their European parents ).
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the conquerors expel the previous colonists.
Instead they सब जिया पक्ष by side in peace.
There were no प्रमुख सिविल युद्धों among the 13 colonies, and the two chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in 1676 and in New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures.
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars and पिता rale 's युद्ध —were तूल, और शामिल french-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
By 1760 France थी पराजित और the अंग्रेजों seized its colonies.
The four distinct regions were : New England, the Middle Colonies, the chesapeake खाड़ी colonies ( अपर दक्षिण ) and the Lower South.
Some historians add a fifth region, the frontier, जिससे was never separately organized.
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated by new diseases, introduced to them दशकों पहले by explorers and sailors.
See timeline of Colonial America for list of ऐतिहासिक कार्यक्रम.
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February 20, 1924 ) is an American कलाकार, लेखक, अभिनेत्री, heiress, और socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans.
She is a member of the prominent वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of New York and the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper.
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ), officially the Hellenic Republic ( ' ), is a देश in southeast Europe.
According to the 2011 census, यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 million.
Athens is the स्वदेश 's पूंजी and largest city, its urban area also including Piraeus.
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, और रै जमीन सीमायें साथ अल्बानियाई, the गणतंत्र of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north, and Turkey to the northeast.
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of मेनलैंड यूनानियों, the आयोनियन समुद्र to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south.
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length, featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400, of which 227 are inhabited ), सहित Crete, the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, and the Ionian Islands among others.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of mountains, of which Mount ओलम्पस is the highest at.
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of Ancient Greece, generally माना the पालना of पश्चिमी civilization.
As such, it is the जन्मस्थान of लोकतंत्र, पश्चिमी दर्शनशास्त्र, the ओलम्पिक खेल, पश्चिमी literature and historiography, political science, major scientific and mathematical principles, and Western drama, including both tragedy and comedy.
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO World Heritage Sites स्तिथ in यूनानियों, रैंकिंग it 7th in Europe and 13th in the world.
The आधुनिक यूनानी राज्य थी established in 1830, following the Greek War of Independence.
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations, has been a member of what is now the यूरोपीय संघ चूंकि 1981 ( और the eurozone चूंकि 2001 ), and has been a member of NATO since 1952.
Greece is a developed country with an advanced, high-income economy and very high मानकों of living, including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010.
Greece 's economy is also the largest in the balkans, जहाँ Greece is an important regional investor.
A prime meridian is a meridian, i.e. a line of longitude, at जिससे देशांतर is defined to be 0°.
A prime meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system, the 180th मध्याह्न ( at 180° देशांतर ), form a great circle.
This great circle divides the sphere, e.g. the धरती, into दो बांटती.
If one uses दिशानिर्देश of ईस्ट और वेस्ट इससे a पारिभाषित prime meridian, then they can be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere.
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas cosmographicae ( 1595 ) उपयोग a प्रधान मध्याह्न कही close to 25°W, passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic.
His 180th meridian runs along the Strait of anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary, unlike an equator, which is संकल्पित by the अक्ष of rotation—and various conventions have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout history.
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; June 24, 1980 ) is an American actress.
She is perhaps best ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in चार्ली 's फ़रिश्ते, Friday Night Lights, and The Roommate.
R.O.B. ( Robotic Operating Buddy ), released in Japan as the, is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ).
It was released in July 1985 in जापानी और later that year in North America.
It had a short उत्पाद जीवनकाल, साथ support लिये तभी two games which comprised the `` Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. was released with the intention of portraying the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली as something novel in order to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. was available in the Deluxe Set, a configuration for the console that included, among अन्य बाते, r.o.b. और gyromite.
Stack-Up was खरीदा separately और included its own physical game pieces.
The Walking स्वतंत्रता हाफ डालर थी a चांदी 50-cent टुकड़ा or हाफ डालर coin issued by the United States Mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman.
In 1915, the new Mint Director, रॉबर्ट W. woolley, आए to मानना कि he was not only allowed but required by law to replace coin designs that had been in use for 25 years.
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes, quarters and half dollars, all bearing similar designs by long-time मिंट engraver चार्ल्स E. नाई, और पहला struck in 1892.
Woolley था the आयोग of Fine Arts conduct a competition, as a result of which Weinman was selected to design the dime and half dollar.
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun लिये the हाफ डालर proved difficult to perfect, and Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo, whose department included the Mint, considered having Barber create his own design.
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into production, although it never struck very well, which may have been a factor in इसके बदलना by the फ्रैंकलिन हाफ डालर शुरूआत in 1948.
Nevertheless, art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to be among the सबसे खूबसूरत US coins.
Since 1986, a परिवर्धन of weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन has been used for the American Silver Eagle.
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size खेल यूटिलिटी vehicle ( SUV ) produced by the Japanese manufacturer Toyota and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present.
In Japan it was known as the Toyota Hilux लहरे.
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV and little more than a Toyota pickup truck with a fiberglass shell over the bed, but the model has since undergone significant स्वतंत्र विकास into a क्रॉस between a compact and a mid-size SUV.
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara संयंत्र in Tahara, Aichi, Japan, or at Hino Motors ' Hamura, Japan plant, and in Brazil.
Its mid-size crossover एसयूवी बंटवारा is the Toyota Highlander.
This article deals with medicine as practiced by प्रशिक्षित पेशेवर from ancient times to the present.
The प्राचीन उन्होंने था a प्रणाली of medicine that was very advanced for its time and influenced later medical traditions.
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the concepts of diagnosis, prognosis, and medical examination.
The Greeks went even further, and उन्नत as खूब चिकित्सा ethics.
The Hippocratic Oath, still लिया by डॉक्टर आज, was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE.
In the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery.
Universities began systematic training of physicians around the सालो 1220 in इटली.
During the Renaissance, understanding of anatomy improved, and the सूक्ष्मदर्शी थी invented.
the रोगाणु सिद्धान्त of बीमारी in the 19th century led to cures for many infectious diseases.
Military डॉक्टर उन्नत the विधि of trauma treatment and surgery.
Public health उपायों यहूद विकसित विशेषकर in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures.
Advanced research centers opened in the जल्दी 20th century, often connected with major hospitals.
The mid-20th सदी थी characterized by new biological treatments, such as antibiotics.
These advancements, along with developments in रसायन, आनुवंशिकी, and lab technology ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine.
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century, and new careers opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ).
The 21st century is characterized by very उन्नत शोध involving numerous fields of science.
The Hippocratic Corpus, is a collection of early medical works from ancient Greece strongly associated with the ancient Greek physician हिपोक्रेटिस और उसके शिक्षाओं.
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K ( from neo-latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and is very reactive with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite the हाइड्रोजन उत्सर्जित in the प्रतिक्रिया और burning साथ a lilac ज्वाला.
Because potassium and sodium are chemically very similar, their लवण यहूद नहीं at पहला differentiated.
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702, and this was proven in 1807 जब पोटैशियम और सोडियम were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis.
Potassium in nature occurs तभी in ionic salts.
As such, it is found dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 % potassium by weight ), और is भाग of अनेक खनिज.
Most औद्योगिक रासायनिक applications of potassium employ the relatively high solubility in water of potassium compounds, such as potassium soaps.
Potassium metal has only a few special applications, being replaced in most रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ with sodium metal.
Potassium ions हैं जरुरी for the function of all living cells.
Potassium ion diffusion is a कुंजी यांत्रिकी in nerve transmission, and potassium depletion in animals, including humans, results in various cardiac dysfunctions.
Potassium accumulates in plant cells, and thus fresh fruits and सब्जियां हैं a शुभ dietary सोर्स of it.
Conversely, most plants except specialist halophytes are असहिष्णु of नमक, और सोडियम is उपस्थित in उन्हें only in low concentration.
This resulted in potassium first being isolated from potash, the ashes of पौधे, giving the तत्व इसके नाम.
For the same reason, heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of वैश्विक पोटैशियम रासायनिक production.
The Singapore dollar or dollar ( sign : $ ; कोड : sgd ) is the official currency of Singapore.
It is सामान्यतः abbreviated साथ the डालर sign $, or alternatively S $ to distinguish it from other dollar -denominated currencies.
it is विभाजित into 100 cents.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the ऐतिहासिक exchangeability of उनके दो मुद्राएँ, the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar, respectively.
The dollar is accepted as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the करेंसी interchangeability Agreement.
Likewise, the ब्रुनेई डालर is customarily accepted in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) was an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री, theorist और अनुभवजन्य researcher, based chiefly at the University of Chicago.
He was elected president of the अमरीकी समाजशास्त्रीय Association.
कोलमैन पढ़ाई the समाजशास्त्र of शिक्षा, पब्लिक policy, and was one of the earliest users of the term `` social capital ``.
His Foundations of Social Theory influenced समाजशास्त्रीय सिद्धान्त.
His The adolescent समाज ( 1961 ) और `` कोलमैन रपट '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity, 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in educational sociology.
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory, reshape national education policies, and influenced public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining समता और उत्पादकता in the संयुक्त States.
Superman ( from DC comics ) थी the first superhero created, art by Jim Lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or सुपर नायिका ) is a type of stock character possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public.
Since the debut of the prototypical सुपरहीरो सुपरमैन in 1938, stories of superheroes—ranging from brief episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media.
The word itself तिथियाँ to at least 1917.
A female superhero is sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or सुपर नायिका ).
`` SUPER HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned by dc कॉमिक्स और आश्चर्य Comics.
By most definitions, characters do not strictly require actual superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes, हालांकि शर्तें ऐसे as costumed अपराधों सेनानी or नकाबपोश vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits.
Such characters were generally referred to as `` रहस्य मेन '' in the so-called सुनहरी Age of Comic Books to distinguish them from characters with super-powers.
Normally, superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating खतरे विरूद्ध मानवता by supervillains, their criminal counterparts.
Often, one of these supervillains will be the सुपरहीरो 's archenemy.
As well, some longrunning superheroes, ऐसे as सुपरमैन, Batman, Spider-Man and Iron Man each has a rogues gallery of enemies.
As well, superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular threats as aliens, magical/ काल्पनिक entities, अमरीकी युद्ध दुश्मनों ऐसे as नात्सीवाद or communism, and godlike or demonic creatures.
The following is a historical list of actors and primary character roles which appear on the अमरीकी साबुन ओपेरा एक Life to Live.
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim रॉबिन्स और मॉर्गन फ्रीमैन.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella रीता hayworth और shawshank मोचन, the फिल्मी tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who spends nearly two decades in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd `` रेड '' redding, और पाता खुद सुरक्षित by the गार्ड after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation.
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget, the film received favorable reviews from critics, multiple award nominations, और रै चूंकि enjoyed a उल्लेखनीय जीवन on केबल टेलीविज़न, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It was included in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's 100 सालो... 100 फिल्मों 10th Anniversary Edition.
IT management is the discipline whereby all of the technology resources of a firm are managed in accordance साथ its needs and priorities.
These resources may include tangible investments like computer hardware, software, data, networks and data centre facilities, as well as the staffs जो are hired to maintain them.
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic management functions, like budgeting, staffing, and organizing and controlling, along with other aspects that are अद्वितीय to प्रौद्योगिकी, जैसे बदलें प्रबन्धन, software design, network planning, tech support etc.
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot, which took place on February 2 and 3, 1980, in the state 's maximum security prison दक्षिण of सांता fe, थी एक of the सबसे हिंसक थाना दंगे in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी correctional system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries.
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed, but seven were treated for injuries caused by beatings और rapes.
This was the third major riot at the NM राज्य penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953.
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have महरूम उच्चतर, as a क्रमांक of लाशें यहूद incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` Red Cardinal '' redirects यहाँ.
For the plant erythrina herbacea, देखिए Coral Bean.
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a उत्तर अमरीकी बर्ड in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal.
It can be found in दक्षिणी कनाडा, through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico.
It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
The उत्तरी कार्डिनल is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and gray in the female.
The male is a vibrant red, जबकि the मादा is a dull red-brown shade.
The Northern Cardinal is मुख्यतः granivorous, but also feeds on insects and fruit.
The male behaves territorially, अंकन out his territory with song.
During courtship, the male feeds seed to the मादा beak-to-beak.
A clutch of three to four eggs is laid, and two to चार clutches are produced each year.
It was once prized as a pet, but its sale as cage birds is now banned in the United States by the migratory बर्ड सन्धि अधिनियम of 1918.
Surface runoff, also called nonpoint सोर्स प्रदूषण, इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in आयोवा during a rain storm.
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run बंद unprotected फार्म फ़ील्ड जब भारी rains occur.
Topsoil is the अपर, outermost layer of soil, usually the top to.
It रै the उच्चतम विशेषज्ञता of सशुल्क पदार्थ and microorganisms and is where most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in Schoenberg 's sechs kleine klavierstücke, op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
Note that the notes do not come in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन हैं सब adjacent ( not separated by other notes ).
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for solo piano written by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
McAfee, Inc. ( ) is an American global computer सुरक्षा software company headquartered in Santa Clara, California, and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company.
as of फ़रवरी 28, 2011, McAfee is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel.
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are Avira, bitdefender, bullguard, f-secure, frisk, Kaspersky, Symantec, and Trend Micro to name a few.
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - may 22, 1457 ) थी an इतालवी augustinian nun, widow and saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church.
रीता थी शादीशुदा at an early age.
The विवाह lasted लिये 18 सालो, दौरान जिससे वो is remembered लिये her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior.
Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family, वो sought to dissuade her sons from revenge.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters, where she was known for practicing mortification of the flesh, along with the apparent efficacy of her prayers.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession, and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her forehead, which the Roman Catholic Church claims to have been a partial stigmata.
The Roman Catholic Church, under the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII officially canonized Rita on May 24, 1900, while her feast day is मनाये प्रत्येक may 22.
In many pious Catholic countries, Rita is known to be a patroness लिये abused पत्नियां and mourning women.
North America is a महाद्वीप wholly भीतर the उत्तरी Hemisphere and almost wholly within the Western Hemisphere.
It is also considered a northern उपमहाद्वीप of the Americas.
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean, to the east by the Atlantic समंदर, to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण by the प्रशांत समंदर, और to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea.
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( 9,540,000 square miles ), about 4.8 % of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area.
As of July 2008, its population was estimated at nearly 529 million people आरपार 23 स्वतंत्र राज्य, representing परिचय 7.5 % of the human population.
North America is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia and Africa, and the fourth in जनसांख्यिकी बाद एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, और यूरोपीय.
The first people to live in North America were Paleoindians who began to arrive दौरान the पिछला glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge.
They differentiated into a number of diverse संस्कृतियों और communities across the continent.
The largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian सभ्यताओं in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद the aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th और 17th centuries, wiping out large numbers of the native populations and beginning an era of European dominance.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम J. कोल, is an American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from Fayetteville, North Carolina.
In 2009, he became the first artist to sign to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label.
His long-awaited डेब्यू एल्बम, हकदार कोल संसार : The Sideline Story, was released on September 27, 2011.
The album debuted at number one on the US बिलबोर्ड 200, शीर्ष r & B Albums and Top Rap Albums chart, selling more than 218,000 in its first week.
He received a nomination for Best नई कलाकार at the 54th Grammy Awards.
The two main characters of the श्रेणी, ratchet ( right ) and Clank ( left ).
Ratchet & Clank is a series of मंच वीडियो games.
The franchise was created and विकसित by insomniac खेल और प्रकाशित by सोनी कंप्यूटर Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles, such as PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 with the exclusion of Size Matters and Secret Agent Clank, which were developed by High Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable.
Every game in the series has been released for every console, as the ip is स्वामित्व by Sony Computer Entertainment.
An animated feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment is अनुसूचित लिये a नाट्य रिलीज sometime in 2015.
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like अक्षर ज्ञात as a lombax, who is a mechanic ) and Clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe, saving it from evil forces on a regular basis.
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and unique, over the top weapons and devices, a concept कि insomniac खेल भी विस्तारित into their other games.
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a person, the testator, names one or more persons to मैनेज his/her एस्टेट और provides लिये the transfer of his property at death.
For the devolution of प्रॉपर्टी नहीं disposed of by होगा, see inheritance and intestacy.
In the strictest sense, a `` will '' has historically been सीमित to रियल प्रॉपर्टी जबकि `` वसीयत '' applies तभी to dispositions of निजी property ( thus giving rise to the popular title of the document as `` Last Will and Testament '' ), though this distinction is seldom observed today.
A will may also create a testamentary trust that is प्रभावी तभी बाद the मौत of the testator.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply शक्ति 24 घंटों a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, which can make considerable योगदान to solving कुछ of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute सौर उर्जा.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु बदलें, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ are global.
hence the अतिरिक्त costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Sir थामस अधिक ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 14786 जुलाई 1535 ), known to Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935, was an English lawyer, social philosopher, author, statesman, and noted Renaissance humanist.
He was an important councillor to Henry VIII of England and was Lord चांसलर इससे अक्तूबर 1529 to 16 may 1532.
He was canonized by Pope Pius XI in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism that separated the Church of इंग्लैण्ड इससे रोम in the 16th century.
In 2000, Pope John Paul II declared him patron of Catholic statesmen और राजनेता.
More was an opponent of the प्रोटोस्टेंट reformation, in particular of Martin Luther and William Tyndale.
However, चूंकि 1980, he is भी commemorated by the Church of England as a reformation martyr.
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a name he gave to the ideal and imaginary island nation, the political system of which he described in यूटोपिया, प्रकाशित in 1516.
he opposed the किंग 's विरह इससे the Roman Catholic Church and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by the First Succession Act, because the अधिनियम disparaged papal प्राधिकार और henry’s विवाह to Catherine of Aragon.
In 1535, he was tried for treason, convicted on perjured गवाही, और beheaded.
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to mean `` desperately trying even useless things '', in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation.
Intellectuals and कूटनीतिज्ञों आरपार यूरोपीय यहूद stunned by More 's execution.
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than any snow, whose प्रतिभाशाली थी ऐसे कि इंग्लैण्ड never had and never again will have its like ''.
There was a more controversial side to More 's life, because he advocated the persecution and निष्पादन of protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive इस in लाइट of the टाइम्स he जिया in और उसके martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause.
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the व्यक्ति of the महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम कभी उत्पादित '', a sentiment with which Samuel Johnson agreed.
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that More थी `` the पहला ग्रेट अंग्रेज जिसको we महसूस that we know, the most saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the universal man of our cool northern renaissance. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional character invented by the फ्रेंच विज्ञान fiction लेखक Jules Verne.
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the समुद्र ( 1870 ) और the रहस्यमय द्वीप ( 1874 ), और makes a cameo appearance in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
nemo, एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध antiheroes in fiction, is a mysterious figure.
The son of an Indian Raja, he is a scientific genius who roams the depths of the समुद्र in उसके पनडुब्बी, the Nautilus, which was built on a deserted island.
Nemo tries to project a stern, controlled confidence, but he is driven by a thirst for प्रतिशोध और a द्वेष of साम्राज्यवाद ( particularly the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his crew members और भी by the मौतों of दुश्मन sailors.
Nemo has appeared in विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels, सहित films, जहाँ he has been portrayed by a number of different actors.
He has furthermore been adopted by other authors for inclusion in their novels, most notably in Alan Moore 's The League of असाधारण सज्जनों और फिलिप जोस किसान 's the Other Log of Phileas Fogg.
Listed below are the Major League Baseball teams with the best season won-lost records in history, as संकल्पित by जीतना प्रतिशत (.700 or बेहतर ), minimum 120 games played.
ध्वनिक coupler modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an analog वाहक सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल सूचना, and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily और decoded to reproduce the original digital data.
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting एनालॉग सिग्नल, इससे लाइट emitting diodes to radio.
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the digital data of a personal कंप्यूटर into modulated विद्युत सिग्नल in the आवाज़ आवृत्ति range of a telephone channel.
These signals can be transmitted over telephone lines and demodulated by another modem at the receiver पक्ष to रिकवर the डिजिटल आंकड़ा.
Modems are generally classified by the amount of data they can send in a given unit of time, usually expressed in bits प्रति दूसरी ( bit/s, or bps ), or बाइट्स प्रति second ( B/s ).
modems can alternatively be classified by their symbol rate, measured in baud.
The baud unit denotes symbols per second, or the क्रमांक of टाइम्स per second the modem sends a new signal.
For example, the ITU V.21 standard used audio आवृत्ति shift keying with two possible frequencies corresponding to two distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ), to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud.
By contrast, the original ITU V.22 standard, which was able to transmit and receive चार पृथक symbols ( two bits per symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies, तब at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
बजाय वे अभी formed a new nation—the United States of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence, जिससे थी unanimously स्वीकृत on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, which congress would edit to produce the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the text on July 4, Congress issued the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in अनेक फ़ॉर्म.
It was initially published as the printed डनलप broadside कि was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the घोषणा थी स्वीकृत on July 4, the date of its signing was August 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from इस असली दस्तावेज़.
The sources and निर्वचन of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य by लिस्टिंग colonial grievances against King George III, and by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since then, it has come to be considered a major statement on human अधिकारों, विशेषकर इसके दूसरी sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों, कि among ये हैं जीवन, स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the most potent and consequential शब्द in अमरीकी history. ''
the ड्योढ़ी आए to represent a moral standard to which the United States should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued that the Declaration is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution should be interpreted.
it रै प्रेरित कार्य for the rights of marginalized people throughout the world.
The Economy of Greenland can be characterized as छोटी, मिश्रित and vulnerable.
The present economy consists of a big public sector and व्यापक विदेशी व्यापार, जिससे रै resulted in an अर्थव्यवस्था साथ अवधि of दमदार विकास, considerable inflation, unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow from Denmark and use of outside, mainly Danish, skilled labor.
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support इससे the डैनिश सरकारी, जिससे आपूर्तियाँ परिचय हाफ the revenues of the home rule government who in turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
बेरोजगारी nonetheless remains ऊँची, with the rest of the economy dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp and fish.
Hydrogen is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ symbol H and atomic number 1.
With an atomic weight of ( लिये hydrogen-1 ), हाइड्रोजन is the lightest element and its monatomic form ( H1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass.
Non- remnant सितारों हैं mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state.
At standard temperature and pressure, हाइड्रोजन is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2.
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in molecules such as water और सशुल्क यौगिकों क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily फ़ॉर्म covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements.
Hydrogen plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry with many reactions exchanging protons between घुलनशील अणुओं.
In ionic compounds, it can take a negative charge ( an anion known as a hydride and written as H− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
The latter cation is written as though रचित of a bare प्रोटॉन, लकिन in वास्तविकता, हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species.
The most common isotope of hydrogen is protium ( name rarely प्रयुक्त, प्रतीक 1H ) with a single proton and no neutrons.
As the simplest atom known, the हाइड्रोजन अणु रै been of theoretical use.
लिये उदाहरण, as the तभी न्यूट्रल atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger equation, the study of the energetics and bonding of the hydrogen atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics.
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the early 16th century, via the mixing of metals with acids.
In 1766–81, Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete पदार्थ, और कि it produces जल जब burned, a प्रॉपर्टी जिससे बाद दिया it इसके नाम : in Greek, hydrogen means `` water-former ''.
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस, और कम प्रायः from more energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water.
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site, with the two largest uses being fossil fuel प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) and ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market.
Hydrogen is a चिंता in metallurgy as it can embrittle many metals, complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks.
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller film directed by Tony Scott, लिखा by चिह्नित bomback, और अभिनीत डेंज़ल वॉशिंगटन and Chris Pine.
The film, loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888 incident, tells the story of a runaway freight train, and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it.
It was स्कॉट 's फाइनल विशेषता film before his death in 2012.
The film was released in the United States and Canada on November 12, 2010, और in the संयुक्त किंगडम on नवम्बर 24, 2010.
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a `` certified भैस '' दरजा on सड़े टमाटर based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic.
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Sound Editing at the 83rd Academy पुरस्कार, लकिन खोया to inception.
In photography, bracketing is the general technique of taking several गोलियाँ of the वही विषय using अलग camera settings.
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a संतोषजनक चित्र साथ a सिंगल शॉट, विशेषकर जब a small variation in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take several bracketed गोलियाँ ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots, it is typically, but नहीं सदा, प्रयुक्त लिये स्थिर subjects.
Insulated glazing ( IG ), more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) are double or triple glass window panes अलग by an एयर or अन्य gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope.
insulated कांच इकाई हैं manufactured with glass in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications.
Laminated or tempered कांच may भी be used as part of the construction.
Most units are manufactured with the वही मोटाई of कांच प्रयुक्त on दोनो panes लकिन खास अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as acoustic attenuation or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit.
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( igu ), indicating the क्रमांकन सम्मेलन प्रयुक्त in इस article.
Surface # 1 is facing बाहर, सतह # 2 is the अंदर सतह of the exterior pane, Surface # 3 is the outside surface of the interior pane, and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane.
The window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals हैं दिखाया in रेड ( # 7 ), the internal reveal is on the right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ), manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of कांच प्रयुक्त in the ईकाई and still maintain the warranty for the unit.
For example, a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on the exterior और a 3 mm फलक on the interior.
These variations are allowed for architectural and cost reasons.
Other combinations can be निर्दिष्ट और उत्पादित लकिन the manufacturer may reserve the right to limit the term of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether.
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned ईकाई हैं नामित according to the following सम्मेलन : सतह # 1 ( facing outside ), Surface # 2 ( inside of outside pane ), Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside pane ).
applying the सम्बन्धित nomenclature for triple paned units results in surfaces # 1 through # 6.
The performance of insulating glazing can be परिवर्धित through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing खिड़कियाँ with uPVC window frames.
Selenium is a रासायनिक तत्व with symbol Se and atomic number 34.
it is a अधातु with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium.
It rarely occurs in its elemental राज्य in प्रकृति, or as pure ore compounds.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene अर्थ `` चंद्रमा '' ) थी खोजा in 1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius, who noted the similarity of the new element to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide ores, जहाँ it partially replaces the sulfur.
Commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the refining of these ores, सबसे प्रायः दौरान तांबे production.
Minerals that हैं pure selenide or selenate यौगिकों are known, but are rare.
The chief commercial uses for selenium today are in glassmaking और in pigments.
सेलेनियम is a सेमीकंडक्टर और is used in photocells.
Uses in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, once important, have been mostly supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices.
Selenium continues to be used in a few प्रकार of dc शक्ति surge protectors और one type of fluorescent quantum dot.
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, but ट्रेस amounts हैं जरुरी लिये सेल्यूलर function in many organisms, including all animals.
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( जिससे indirectly reduce निश्चित oxidized अणुओं in animals and some plants ).
It is also found in three deiodinase enzymes, which बदलें एक थायराइड हार्मोन to another.
Selenium requirements in plants differ by species, with some पौधे requiring अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts, and others apparently requiring none.
The संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial presidential election.
It थी आयोजित on मंगलवार, November 4, 2008.
Democrat Barack Obama, then the junior सीनेटर इससे Illinois, defeated Republican John McCain, the senior Senator from Arizona.
As the campaign progressed, the युद्ध in इराकी और outgoing रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश था become increasingly unpopular, and the major-party candidates ran on a platform of change and reform.
Domestic policy and the economy eventually emerged as the main themes in the last few months of the चुनाव अभियान after the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s.
Obama would go on to जीत a निर्णायक victory over McCain in both the electoral and popular vote.
Obama received the most votes for a अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी in अमरीकी इतिहास, and won the popular and electoral vote by the largest margin in 12 years, as well as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
This थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्षीय election in which an African American was elected, having also been the first in which an African American won the nomination of either major party.
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S. Senators, only the third time ( बाद 1920 और 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s. सीनेटर थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, और तभी the दूसरी time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S. Senators.
इस थी भी the first election since 1952 in which neither of the major parties ' nominees was the incumbent President or Vice President.
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of Monaco is the reigning monarch और सिर of राज्य of the Principality of Monaco.
All princes or princesses have officially लिया the नाम of the हाउस of grimaldi, लकिन have belonged to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon, Polignac ) in male line.
The reigning Prince is अल्बर्ट II.
Visualization of fragmentation और तब of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems, defragmentation is a प्रक्रम कि reduces the amount of fragmentation.
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass भंडार यंत्र प्रयुक्त to स्टोर files into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
It also कोशिशें to बनाएँ larger regions of free space using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep smaller files within a single directory together, as they हैं प्रायः पहुँचा in sequence.
defragmentation is advantageous and relevant to file systems on electromechanical disk drives.
The गति of the मुश्किल ड्राइव 's read/write heads over अलग क्षेत्रों of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower, compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments.
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a part of a service अनुबंध जहाँ a सेवा is formally defined.
In अभ्यास, the पद sla is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the contracted delivery time ( of the service or performance ).
As an example, internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements within the terms of their contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of सेवा होने बेची in मैदान भाषा terms.
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between failures ( MTBF ), mean time to मरम्मत or औसत समय to रिकवरी ( mttr ) ; विभिन्न आंकड़ा दरों ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details.
Union Station is a former shopping mall in Union नगर, जॉर्जिया, in दक्षिणपश्चिम मैट्रो अटलांटा adjacent to Interstate 85.
After new ownership and renovations in 2006, the name was बदला इससे शैनन southpark मॉल in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
a पिछला renovation was done in the late 1990s.
The mall has been closed since नवम्बर 2010.
This map shows the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य और, in insets at the lower left, the two states that are not contiguous.
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the महाद्वीप of North America that are south of Canada and north of Mexico, plus the District of Columbia.
the पद excludes the states of Alaska and Hawaii, and all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions, such as Puerto Rico.
Together, the 48 contiguous राज्य और d.C. occupy a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल of, जिससे is 1.58 % of the total surface area of the Earth.
Of this, is land, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
officially, is water area, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area.
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the nation 's population, and a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole.
`` Why '' is the title of a song recorded by अमरीकी देश बैंड rascal flatts.
It is the तीसरा सिंगल from their sixth studio album, Unstoppable.
It was released to radio stations on September 29, 2009 and debuted at # 44 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड us बिलबोर्ड hot देश गीतों चार्ट लिये the सप्ताह of अक्तूबर 10, 2009.
It was लिखा by रोब mathes and Allen Shamblin.
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness, चिकित्सा need और दक्षता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं प्रक्रियाओं and facilities according to established criteria or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan.
Typically it includes new activities or निर्णय आधारित upon the analysis of a case.
Utilization management describes proactive procedures, including discharge planning, concurrent planning, pre-certification और नैदानिक case appeals.
It also covers proactive processes, such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews, as खूब as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or patient.
as pre-certification और संयुक्त review of cases grew, utilization management spun out of utilization review.
While not synonymous, health care professionals tend to use the शर्तें as interchangeable.
The difference is utilization management is and intends to manage health care cases efficiently and cost effectively पहले और दौरान health care administration.
Utilization review is more considering whether health care थी appropriately लागू after it was administered.
There हैं चार मौलिक techniques in utilization management:
Demand प्रबन्धन
utilization Review
Case प्रबन्धन
बीमारी प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by S. E. Hinton, पहला प्रकाशित in 1967 by viking दबायें.
hinton थी 15 when she started writing the novel, but did most of the work when she was sixteen and a junior in high school.
hinton was 18 when the book was published.
The book follows two प्रतिद्वंद्वी समूह, the greasers और the socs ( pronounced by the author as, short for Socials ), who are divided by their socioeconomic status.
The book takes place in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 1965, लकिन it is never stated in the book.
A film adaptation was produced in 1983, and a little-known short-lived television series appeared in 1990, picking up जहाँ the movie left off.
The United States House of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is frequently referred to as the House.
the अन्य house is the Senate.
The composition and powers of the House are स्थापित in आलेख एक of the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
The major power of the हाउस is to pass संघीय विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is हकदार to at तनिक one representative.
The most populous state, California, फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि.
The total number of voting प्रतिनिधि is fixed by law at 435.
Each representative serves लिये a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन सम्मेलन, whichever party has more voting members.
The हाउस meets in the दक्षिण wing of the United States Capitol.
A supply chain is actually a complex and डायनेमिक सप्लाई and demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
A supply chain is a प्रणाली of संगठन, people, activities, information, and resources involved in moving a product or service from supplier to customer.
Supply chain activities transform natural resources, raw materials, and components into a finished उत्पाद कि is वितरित to the समाप्त ग्राहक.
In sophisticated supply chain systems, प्रयुक्त उत्पाद may re-enter the सप्लाई कड़ी at any point where residual value is recyclable.
सप्लाई जंजीरों link value chains.
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded by Jimi Hendrix in 1967, released as the second single by The Jimi Hendrix अनुभव in दोनो the संयुक्त किंगडम और the संयुक्त राज्य.
It later appeared on the अमरीकी संस्करण of the बैंड 's 1967 एल्बम Are You Experienced.
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical साइकेडेलिक ड्रग गीतों of the sixties ''.
`` Purple Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic तकनीकों होता be emulated by many metal guitarists.
A close up चित्र of a गैंडा skin.
Skin is the soft outer covering of vertebrates.
Other animal छतरियाँ ऐसे as the सन्धिपाद बहि have अलग developmental origin, structure and chemical composition.
The adjective cutaneous means `` of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis, स्किन ).
In mammals, the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary system बना up of अनेक परतों of ectodermal ऊतक, और गार्ड the underlying muscles, bones, ligaments and internal organs.
Skin of a different nature exists in amphibians, सरीसृपों, और पक्षियों.
All mammals have some hair on their skin, even marine स्तनधारियों which appear to be hairless.
The skin अंतरफलक साथ the पर्यावरण and is the first line of defense from external factors.
For उदाहरण, the स्किन plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss.
Its other functions are insulation, तापमान विनियमन, सनसनी, and the production of vitamin D folates.
severely क्षतिग्रस्त स्किन may heal by forming scar tissue.
इस is sometimes discoloured and depigmented.
The thickness of skin also varies इससे स्थान to स्थान on an organism.
In humans for example, the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids is the thinnest skin in the body at 0.5 mm thick, and is एक of the पहला क्षेत्रों to दिखाएँ signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles.
The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm मोटा और the thickest skin in the body.
Fur is घना बाल.
Primarily, fur augments the insulation the स्किन provides but can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage.
On some animals, the skin is बहुत मुश्किल और मोटा, and can be processed to create leather.
Reptiles and fish have hard सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on their skin for protection, and birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to passage of chemicals and is often विषय to परासरण and diffusive forces.
For example, a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution would be sedated जल्दी, as the रासायनिक diffuses through its skin.
Thomas स्कॉट
The Rev. Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally known for his best-selling work A Commentary On The Whole Bible and The Force of Truth, and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society.
Daniel Radcliffe, who portrays Harry Potter, रै महरूम the प्रतीक of the फिल्मी श्रेणी चूंकि the release of the first film in 2001.
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have played Harry कुम्हार, रॉन वीज़्ली और Hermione Granger in all the films.
When they were cast only Radcliffe था previously acted in a film.
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter, Jim Broadbent, John Cleese, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, Brendan Gleeson, Richard Griffiths, Richard Harris, John Hurt, Jason Isaacs, Miriam Margolyes, Helen McCrory, Gary Oldman, Alan Rickman, Fiona Shaw, Maggie Smith, Timothy Spall, Imelda Staunton, David Thewlis, Emma Thompson, and Julie Walters, among others.
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same character in सब आठ films of the मताधिकार.
Some well-known British अभिनेताओं जो have नहीं appeared in the series, are asked in jest why they have not been cast.
When David Yates was directing the fifth film, Bill Nighy, who had previously collaborated with Yates on three of his टेलीविज़न प्रोजेक्ट, कहा कि he joked साथ येट्स कि संभवतः अभी he होता n't be the तभी कर्ता in England who had n't been in Harry Potter.
`` But nobody called '', nighy added.
But in 2009, येट्स डाल nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in Deathly Hallows.
Nighy said, `` I am no longer the तभी English actor not to be in Harry Potter and I am very pleased. ''
jude विधि रै quipped, `` Nobody 's asked me.
I was a bit too old लिये हैरी ''.
जब a रिपोर्टर compared potions प्राध्यापक होरेस slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every notable British actor, '' Jim Broadbent, who plays Slughorn said, `` Well, not every actor gets invited.
I जान some who are still waiting. ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus, each director has had a cameo appearance in his respective film : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a wizard holding a candle during a scene at The Three Broomsticks in कैदी of azkaban ; माइक newell is सुना briefly as the रेडियो प्रस्तुतकर्ता in फ़्रैंक ब्राइस 's हाउस in प्याला of आग ; और दाउद येट्स सुविधाएँ as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix.
Producer David Heyman also makes a cameo appearance as a wizard featured within a जादुई चलती पोर्ट्रेट in the तीसरा फिल्मी, कैदी of Azkaban.
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world premiere of the फाइनल फिल्मी in the series— Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the प्रतिभाशाली अभिनेताओं और अभिनेत्रियों who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies.
Rowling also announced that there are seven Harry कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल सदस्यों, जो वो refers to as `` The Big Seven '', they are Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright.
The list below is sorted by film and character, as some characters have been portrayed by multiple actors.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or अभिनेत्री lent तभी उसके or उसके आवाज़ for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when the character was young.
( f ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री किया नहीं appear in any new footage for the film ; footage from an earlier film or films was used.
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' कालम ) indicates the अक्षर थी नहीं in the film adaptation.
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles, ' based on the approved literature ) outlining a कोर्स of कार्रवाई लिये रिकवरी इससे, compulsion, or other behavioral problems.
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism, the Twelve कदम यहूद पहला प्रकाशित in the किताब alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939.
The method was then adapted और became the न्यास of other twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the American Psychological संघ, the प्रक्रम involves the following:
admitting that एक can नहीं कंट्रोल एक 's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher power that can दे शक्ति ;
examining past errors with the help of a प्रायोजक ( experienced member ) ;
बनाना amends for these errors ;
learning to live a new life साथ a नई कोड of behavior ;
helping अन्य जो suffer from the same addictions or compulsions.
Witness impeachment, in the law of evidence of the United States, is the process of calling into सवाल the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial.
The Federal Rules of प्रमाण contain the rules governing impeachment in federal courts.
Party leaders and whips of the संयुक्त States House of Representatives are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders.
The U.S. House of Representatives does not officially use the term `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' हालांकि the media frequently do.
The House instead उपयोग the शर्तें `` रिपब्लिकन नेता '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats.
The current House Majority Leader is Republican Eric Cantor, while the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
The current House Majority Whip is रिपब्लिकन केविन मैकार्थी, जबकि the वर्तमान House Minority Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the German Army opened the Western Front by first आक्रमणकारी ध्वज और बेल्जियम, तब gaining सैन्य कंट्रोल of important industrial regions in France.
The tide of the अग्रिम थी dramatically turned with the Battle of the Marne.
Following the race to the sea, both sides dug in साथ a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches, stretching from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France.
इस लकीर remained essentially unchanged for most of the war.
Between 1915 and 1917 there were several major offensives साथ इस सामने.
The attacks employed विशाल तोपखाने bombardments and massed infantry advances.
However, a combination of entrenchments, यंत्र गन nests, कंटीले तार, और तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders.
as a परिणाम, no significant advances were made.
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead, the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million हताहत, और the बैटल of passchendaele साथ roughly [ an अनुमानित ] 600,000 casualties.
In an effort to break the deadlock, this front saw the introduction of new military प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित ज़हर गैस, वायुयान और टैंक.
But it थी तभी बाद the अपनाना of improved tactics that some degree of mobility was restored.
The German Spring Offensive of 1918 was made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk कि चिह्नित the समाप्त of the विरोध on the Eastern Front.
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the German armies उन्नत nearly to the वेस्ट, जिससे चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either पक्ष since 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this front, this थिएटर होता prove decisive.
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the दूसरी हाफ of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat was inevitable, and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice.
The terms of peace were agreed upon with the signing of the Treaty of versailles in 1919.
The following is a list of recurring and minor characters in the Disney Channel Original Series The सुइट जीवन of Zack & Cody.
These characters were regularly rotated, often disappearing लिये long अवधि दौरान the श्रेणी.
The following list of characters has been sorted alphabetically, by पहला नाम.
Some of the characters had no पिछला नाम और सबसे यहूद commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to be the most logical method.
In the मामला of शेफ़ पाउलो, जो था no known first name, they have been listed by title.
The पहला महिला of the United States ( FLOTUS ) is the hostess of the White House.
क्युकी इस स्थिति is traditionally भर by the बीवी of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the शीर्षक is सबसे प्रायः लागू to the बीवी of a बैठे अध्यक्ष.
The current First Lady is Michelle Obama.
After her husband Barack Obama was re-elected on November 6, 2012, वो is अनुसूचित to serve until January 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a medical condition as a परिणाम of कठोर संक्रमण and sepsis, though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site.
It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death.
Its most common victims are children, immunocompromised individuals, and the elderly, as their immune systems can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of स्वस्थ adults.
Frequently, patients suffering from septic shock are cared for in intensive परवाह इकाई.
The mortality rate from septic shock is लगभग 25–50 %.
Kevin Brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer.
His given name may also be cited as kheaven, a spelling he later adopted.
The alias `` k-os '', spelled with a निम्नतर मामला `` k '', थी intended to be कम aggressive than the pseudonyms of other rappers whose names were all upper case, such as KRS-One.
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self, '' although in a later interview he said that it originally stood for `` Kevin 's Original Sound. '' k-os ' music incorporates a चौड़ी किस्में of म्यूज़िक जाति, सहित rap, funk, rock, and reggae.
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at टाइम्स expressing आलोचना of मुख्यधारा hip hop culture 's obsession with money, fame and glorification of violence.
A musician as well as a निर्माता, k-os has written and produced nearly every part of all four of his albums.
k-os usually performs with a live band, something that is uncommon in the हिप हॉप genre.
He sometimes plays guitar and कुंजीपटल दोनो दौरान सजीव प्रदर्शन and in the studio.
k-os received his first musical exposure with the single `` Musical essence '', released in 1993.
After the release of his दूसरी सिंगल `` वृद्धि Like the Sun '' in 1996, he withdrew from the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम Exit in 2002.
The album received धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ लकिन बेची relatively few copies.
He released his second album Joyful Rebellion in 2004, which received platinum औकात in Canada.
A third एल्बम,, थी released in 2006 and also went platinum.
उसके चौथी album, Yes !
, was released in 2009.
His fifth album BLack on सुनहरे was released in 2013.
The official 2007 edition of the ucc.
Even the confidential rough drafts of the UCC यहूद saved और प्रकाशित as a 10-volume set.
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ), first published in 1952, is one of a number of uniform acts that have been promulgated in conjunction with efforts to harmonize the law of sales and अन्य वाणिज्यिक ट्रांजेक्शन in सब 50 राज्य भीतर the संयुक्त States of America.
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing routes with one or अधिक stops at a belay स्टेशन.
Each section of actual चढ़ाई between stops at the belay स्टेशन is called a pitch.
The leader ascends the pitch, placing gear और stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay station.
The reason for the stops can be संकल्पित by choice, convention or necessity.
लिये example:
The rope is too short to do the entire route in one पिच ( necessity ).
The leader has run out of protective gear ( necessity ).
There is a convenient protectable ledge, or fixed bolts placed by previous climbers, at the स्थान लिये a belay station ( convention ).
The leader chooses to rest or exchange लीड पहले the अगला खण्ड of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to ascend to the point of the lead climber while collecting the सुरक्षात्मक गियर from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent.
At the belay स्टेशन, the सुरक्षात्मक gear is collected, possibly exchanged to a new leader, and the leader of the next pitch ascends the route.
A diagram प्रर्दशित an i गठन on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football, each टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the field at one time.
the विशिष्ट भूमिका that a player takes on the field is called their position.
Under the modern rules of American football, टीमों हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the ball, who is trying to स्कोर ), the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various specific स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on कया the player 's main job is.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
the सीएसए is the संघीय u.S. ड्रग policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single सम्मेलन on narcotic दवाएँ.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying योग्यता लिये a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride station in Wayne, New Jersey along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New York City and various other points in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New यॉर्क, hoboken, और इंटरमीडिएट अंक साथ the लकीर between hackettstown and Montclair State University.
It is located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23 on West Belt Road, near the इंटरचेंज जहाँ रूट 23, अंतरराज्यीय 80, and U.S. Route 46 meet, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
The station opened in January 2008 और रै 1,000 पार्किंग स्पेसेस.
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail and bus station to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन, '' कि होगा help relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange, where the three major highways meet.
In addition, the construction of the station थी meant to भी आसानी the जमघट at कया थी तब रूट 23 पार्क & Ride, a bus depot on Route 23 North that has since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride, and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook.
The Wayne township बस गैरेज is located on the opposite side of Route 23.
वहीँ रै महरूम a प्रस्ताव to build a parking deck with another thousand spots and develop the land at the station.
In addition to montclair-boonton रेल, the Transit Center is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to न्यूर्क penn Station and Butler
194 to Port प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus Terminal और विलियम paterson University
324 to Port प्राधिकार और Wayne Route 23
748 to willowbrook मॉल and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol, ampersat, apetail or commercial at in english—and कम commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of other terms.
The fact that there is no single word in English for the symbol has prompted some writers to use the फ्रेंच arobase or स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली arroba—or to सिक्का नई शब्द ऐसे as asperand, ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency.
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters, लकिन थी on at तनिक एक 1889 मॉडल और the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is now universally शामिल on कंप्यूटर keyboards.
In recent years, its meaning has grown to शामिल the भाव of होने `` स्तिथ at, '' `` और, '' or `` directed at '', especially in email addresses and social media, particularly Twitter.
The चिह्नित is एनकोडेड at.
The Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 अनोखा by J. D. Salinger.
Originally published for adults, it रै चूंकि become popular with adolescent readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation.
It has been अनूदित into लगभग सब of the world 's major languages.
around 250,000 नक़ल हैं sold each year with total sales of more than 65 million books.
The novel 's protagonist and antihero, Holden caulfield, रै become an icon for teenage rebellion.
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923, and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels of the 20th सदी.
It has been frequently challenged in the United States and अन्य देशों लिये इसके उदार use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It also deals with complex issues of identity, belonging, connection, and alienation.
skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
nevertheless, the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
उदाहरण range from 640 to 850.
The मांसपेशियां of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी from the standard anatomical position.
In अन्य स्थितियाँ, other actions may be performed.
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality television series created by Jonathan Murray for the ऑक्सीजन टेलीविज़न स्टेशन.
The show centers on सात feisty और शरारती महिलाओं साथ different backgrounds and personalities, who have a number of psychological and behavioral problems.
They are introduced to the show बंद उनके घातक behavior and accomplish specific goals.
The cast, deemed `` bad girls '', enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a ठीक mansion लिये तीन महीने, दौरान जिससे they must obey specified rules.
Their lives inside – and outside – of the हाउस हैं chronicled और recorded by the production team.
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in five देशों ( संयुक्त States, Netherlands, Australia, Hungary, and Sweden ).
It has received negative reviews इससे आलोचकों, जो मानना the show promotes violence by adolescent viewers.
Furthermore, अनेक cast members made controversial remarks which outraged many viewers.
The format of the show has changed from जल्दी सीज़न.
If a `` bad लड़की '' ब्रेक a rule, she is evicted from the show and, if it is early in the season, replaced by a new `` bad girl ''.
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad Girls Club, with the दसवाँ ऋतु फिलहाल airing.
The fourth season था the उच्चतम दरजा in the show 's history, becoming its `` breakthrough season ''.
There have महरूम तीन spin-offs of The Bad Girls Club.
One of उन्हें, प्रेम खेल : ख़राब लड़कियों Need Love Too, where past cast members seek true love, has gained high ratings.
Oxygen has also released a mobile game, comic strip and merchandise to प्रचार the दिखाएँ.
Of the 92 प्रतियोगी, Kerry Harvick ( of season one ) was a successful country singer before the show.
Tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later hosted ऑक्सीजन 's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent सीज़न of Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too.
Thomas, who has been dubbed the `` godmother '' to सब प्रतियोगी, रै उसके अपना टेलीविज़न documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married.
As of Season 8 she 's been the host of the reunion specials.
The Iowa Senate is the अपर हाउस of the Iowa General Assembly.
वहीँ हैं 50 seats in the Iowa Senate, representing 50 single-member districts across the state with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency,.
Each Senate district is रचित of two House districts.
The Senate meets at the Iowa राज्य Capitol in Des Moines.
नापसंद the निम्नतर हाउस, the आयोवा House of Representatives, Senators serve four-year terms, with half of the Senate staggered for re-election every two years.
There are no term limits लिये the सीनेट.
mechanical repair
Maintenance, repair, and परिचालन ( mro ) or मेंटेनेंस, मरम्मत, और overhaul involves फिक्सिंग कोई sort of mechanical, plumbing or electrical device should it become out of order or broken ( known as repair, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in working order ( known as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be defined as, `` All actions which have the उद्देश्य of retaining or restoring an item in or to a state in which it can perform its required function.
The actions include the combination of सब तकनीकी और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक, managerial, and supervision actions. ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer, i.e. a service is being offered, or whether the उत्पाद is खरीदा by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the former case it may be a backshop आपरेशन भीतर a larger organisation or smaller operation.
The former of these represents a closed loop supply chain and प्रायः रै the पैमाना of मेंटेनेंस, repair or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an open loop supply chain and is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture.
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is that the demand for a product is matched साथ the सप्लाई of a प्रयुक्त product.
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total population of the product between the customer and the service provider remains constant.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( विलियम आर्थर फिलिप लुई ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, and Diana, Princess of Wales, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is दूसरी in the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, पीछे उसके पिता, to the तख्तों of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a degree from the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, Tanzania, and Kenya where he रै जिया और holidayed अनेक times.
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at universities in कीनिया और तंजानिया.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time पायलट साथ the ढूंढें और Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on no. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge, Earl of Strathearn, and Baron carrickfergus.
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), better known by his stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em, or बस soulja लड़के, is an अमरीकी rapper, रिकार्ड producer, actor, and entrepreneur.
In September 2007, his single `` Crank That ( soulja लड़के ) `` पहुँचे number one on the Billboard Hot 100.
The single was initially self-published on the internet, और it बाद became a number-one hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007.
On अगस्त 17 रास्ता थी सूचीबद्ध at # 18 on the फोर्ब्स list of Hip-Hop Cash Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year.
Way has currently released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम और एक स्वतंत्र एल्बम : उसके डेब्यू studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA.
However, his next two albums, iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match the commercial success of his debut, the latter only selling 100,000 copies, despite the success of several singles across both albums, such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( isouljaboytellem ) और `` pretty लड़के swag `` ( the deandre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with interscope रिकॉर्ड जिससे meant a सीमित amount of records were made available to the public.
As of 2011, Way has confirmed he is working on उसके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम, हकदार USA DRE, which will be released in 2013.
The electron transport chain in the सूत्रकणिका is the साईट of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
The NADH and succinate generated in the citric acid साईकिल हैं oxidized, providing energy to power ATP synthase.
Photosynthetic electron हस्तांतरण कड़ी of the thylakoid membrane.
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता ( ऐसे as nadh ) और an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane.
The resulting electrochemical proton gradient is used to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the रूप of एडीनोसिन triphosphate ( ATP ).
Electron transport chains are the सेल्यूलर mechanisms प्रयुक्त लिये extracting उर्जा from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox reactions, such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ).
In chloroplasts, light drives the परिवर्तन of जल to ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to NADPH with transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes.
In mitochondria, it is the परिवर्तन of ऑक्सीजन to जल, nadh to naD+ और succinate to fumarate that are required to generate the proton gradient.
Electron हस्तांतरण जंजीरों हैं प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक electron leakage to oxygen, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, Ryzolt, Ultracet, Ultram in the यूएसए, ralivia, zytram xl durella { cr-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain.
The drug has a wide range of applications, including treatment of आमवातीय गठिया, बेचैन टाँगे सिंड्रोम, मोटर neurone disease and fibromyalgia.
It was शुभारम्भ और marketed as tramal by the जर्मनी फार्मास्युटिकल company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that also induces serotonin रिलीज और inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
Tramadol is metabolized to o-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
Tramadol and its प्रमुख metabolite ( s ) हैं विशिष्ट from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
Bernard लॉरेंस `` बर्नी '' madoff ( ; born अप्रैल 29, 1938 ) is an American former stockbroker, investment advisor, financier, and white collar criminal.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market, and the admitted operator of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in u.S. इतिहास.
Madoff founded the Wall Street कड़ बर्नार्ड L. madoff निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in 1960, and was its chairman until his arrest on December 11, 2008.
The firm थी एक of the शीर्ष मार्केट मेकर businesses on Wall Street, which bypassed `` specialist '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter from retail brokers.
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance अधिकारी ; पीटर रै चूंकि महरूम sentenced to 10 सालो in थाना.
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's नियम और अनुपालन अधिकारी and attorney, and his sons Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ).
On December 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told authorities that their father had confessed to them that the asset management unit of his firm was a massive Ponzi योजना, और कोटेड उसे as describing it as `` one big lie. ''
The following day, FBI एजेंटों गिरफ्तार madoff and charged him with one count of securities fraud.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted investigations into madoff 's कारोबार practices, but did not uncover the massive fraud.
In March 2009, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning उसके माल प्रबन्धन कारोबार into a massive Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of investors of billions of dollars.
Madoff said he began the Ponzi scheme in the जल्दी 1990s.
However, federal investigators believe the धोखाधड़ी began as जल्दी as the 1970s, और those charged with recovering the missing money believe the investment operation may never have been legitimate.
The amount missing from क्लाएंट खाते, सहित fabricated gains, was almost $ 65 billion.
The court-appointed trustee estimated actual losses to investors of $ 18 अरब.
On जून 29, 2009, he थी sentenced to 150 years in prison, the maximum allowed.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In उत्तर अमेरिका, it is मनाये on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In फ़्रांस it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public administrative agency, which has powers and procedures resembling those of a court of law or judge, and which is obligated to objectively determine facts और चित्रण conclusions इससे उन्हें so as to provide the आधार of an official action.
Such क्रियाएँ हैं समर्थ to उपाय a हालात or थोपने legal penalties, and may affect the legal rights, duties or privileges of specific parties.
Monument of Tycho Brahe and योहानेस कॅप्लर in प्राग
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen ब्राहे, थी a डैनिश nobleman ज्ञात for his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations.
He was born in Scania, then part of Denmark, अभी भाग of modern-day Sweden.
Tycho was well known in उसके आजीवन as an astronomer and alchemist.
in उसके de नोवा स्टेला ( on the new star ) of 1573, he refuted the Aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars, '' ( stellae novae, now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572, lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena, और यहूद इसलिए नहीं `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed, but were above the atmosphere and moon.
Using similar measurements he showed that comets were also not atmospheric phenomena, as previously thought, and must pass through the supposedly `` अपरिवर्तनीय '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, tycho worked to combine कया he देखी as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic system into his own model of the universe, the Tychonic system.
Furthermore, he was the last of the major naked eye astronomers, working without telescopes लिये उसके observations.
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the द्वीप of hven और the funding to निर्माण the uraniborg, an early research institute, where he built large astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements, and later Stjerneborg, underground, when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady.
On the island ( on which he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर और बर्ताव toward the residents ) he founded manufactories such as paper-making to provide material for printing his results.
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597, he was आमंत्रित by the bohemian किंग और पावन रोमन सम्राट Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the official imperial astronomer.
He built the नई वेधशाला at Benátky nad Jizerou.
Here, from 1600 जबतक his death in 1601, he was assisted by Johannes Kepler who later used Tycho 's astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion.
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul, South Korea, which was separated from Yeongdeungpo ज़िला on अप्रैल 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern भाग of the नगर, जहाँ besides yangcheon ज़िला और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला रै an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति as a transport link which contains railroads, land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country.
The Gyeongbu and Gyeongin railway lines connect Seoul to बुसान और इंचियोन.
In addition, Seoul Metropolitan Subway lines 1, 2, and 7, and major राजमार्गों प्रतिच्छेद in Guro District.
The name Guro originates इससे the legend that nine ( ) old men ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district.
A digital industrial complex is located in Guro ज़िला.
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex, which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile manufacturing, dressmaking and other labour-intensive industries in 1967, has been rapidly changed into an IT industrial complex.
This complex played a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development era, referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the हान नदी ``, और भी contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s.
Twenty-one percent of the total area of Guro District is a restricted zone to be used as a greenbelt साथ the तभी arboretum in सियोल.
The zone is changing into a lively district as large labour-intensive कारखानों हैं चलती from the area and the council is developing what it terms its four zones.
An `` e-government `` system based on this hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007, with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries.
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux, France ), Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill, US ), Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok, Thailand ), Uvais Mohamed emthiyas ( कोलोन, श्री लंका ), और संसार विशेषज्ञ ऐसे as dr विलियम H. dutton ( निदेशक of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford, UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The Guro Declaration, अपनाया दौरान the फ़ोरम, aims to नियत up a पोर्टल साईट for e-government development and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities.
This practice has been recognised लिये providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण step in the development of e-democracy.
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among cities, to provide I.T. enterprises located in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market, to improve इसके चित्र और become a वैश्विक नेता to कंक्रीट e-democracy.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a type of पकौड़ी commonly मिला in a क्रमांक of चाइनीज cuisines.
Many people were शामिल in the आविष्कार of radio as we now know it.
Several possible methods of बेतार संचार were considered, including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission through the ground, however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves.
After early speculation on the subject, experimental work on the connection between electricity and चुंबकत्व began around 1820 साथ the कार्य of hans ईसाई ओर्स्टेड और जारी साथ the कार्य of André-Marie Ampère, Joseph Henry, and Michael Faraday.
These investigations culminated in the पूरा theory of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell.
This theory described the theoretical basis of the propagation of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें.
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented with wireless communication, some intentionally using मैक्सवेल 's theory some not.
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was performed by David Edward Hughes around 1880, although this was considered to be induction at the time.
The first systematic and unequivocal हस्तांतरण of EM waves was performed by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz and described in papers published in 1887 and 1890.
Hertz famously considered these results as being of छोटी व्यावहारिक मान.
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and theory involved with the हस्तांतरण और reception of electromagnetic waves.
Others, notably Guglielmo Marconi, were concerned with practical improvements and the commercial अनुप्रयोग of रेडियो to wireless telegraphy.
Later on Reginald A. fessenden became the first to send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves.
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C, which is जरूरी लिये the संश्लेषण of कोलेजन in humans.
The chemical name for vitamin C, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin name of scurvy, scorbutus, which also provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do साथ स्कर्वी '' ).
Scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy, followed by गठन of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Spots are most abundant on the जांघों और legs, and a person with the ailment looks pale, feels depressed, and is partially immobilized.
As scurvy advances, there can be open, suppurating wounds, loss of teeth, पीलिया, ज्वर, न्यूरोपैथी और मौत.
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors, pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats and सूखी दाने ) और by सैनिको similarly वंचित of ये भोजन लिये extended periods.
It was described by हिपोक्रेटिस ( c. 460 bc–c. 380 BC ), and herbal cures for scurvy have been known in many native cultures since prehistory.
Scurvy was one of the limiting कारकों of marine travel, often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century, continuing to खेल a significant भूमिका through संसार युद्ध i in the 20th century.
While today स्कर्वी is ज्ञात to be caused by a nutritional deficiency, until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, often on little or no experimental data.
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin C as a पृथक अवधारणा, an अक्षमता to reliably link different foods ( notably present in fresh citrus, watercress, and organ meat ) to scurvy.
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to एयर और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल लवण ऐसे as those of iron, thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time.
Treatment by fresh food, particularly citrus fruit, was periodically implemented, as it था been since antiquity.
However until the 1930s, treatment थी असंगत, साथ many ineffective treatments used into the 20th century.
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy, James Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus fruit in experiments he वर्णित in उसके 1753 किताब, a treatise of the स्कर्वी, हालांकि उसके सलाह थी नहीं implemented by the royal Navy for several decades.
In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as barlow 's बीमारी, named after Sir Thomas Barlow, a British physician who described it.
However, Barlow 's disease may भी refer to mitral valve prolapse.
अन्य eponyms लिये scurvy include Moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's disease.
Scurvy does not occur in most पशु क्युकी वे can synthesize उनके own vitamin C.
However, humans and other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - and tarsiers ), guinea pigs, most or all bats, and some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet.
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues, with particularly high concentrations occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), टमाटर, आलू, पत्तागोभी, and green peppers.
Iron is a chemical element with the symbol Fe ( इससे ) और परमाणु number 26.
It is a metal in the first परिवर्तन श्रेणी.
It is the सबसे आम तत्व ( by mass ) forming the planet Earth as a whole, forming much of Earth 's outer and inner core.
It is the fourth most common element in the धरती 's क्रस्ट.
Iron 's बहुत आम उपस्थिति in रॉकी planets like Earth is due to its abundant production as a result of fusion in high-mass stars, where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic.
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the explosive कार्यक्रम कि scatter इस precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
Like other group 8 elements, iron exists in a wide range of ऑक्सीकरण राज्य, −2 to +6, हालांकि +2 and +3 are the most common.
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen environments, but is reactive to oxygen and water.
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in normal एयर to दे hydrated आयरन oxides, commonly known as rust.
नापसंद अनेक अन्य धातुओं जिससे रूप passivating oxide layers, iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal, and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion.
Iron metal has been used since ancient times, though copper alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, were used first in history.
Pure iron is soft ( softer than aluminium ), लकिन is unobtainable by smelting.
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities from the smelting process, such as carbon.
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % and 2.1 % ) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
Crude iron metal is उत्पादित in धमाका furnaces, where ore is reduced by coke to pig iron, which has a high carbon content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the सही proportion to मेक स्टील.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by दूर the सबसे आम धातुओं in औद्योगिक उपयोग, due to उनके great range of desirable properties and the abundance of iron.
Iron chemical compounds, which शामिल ferrous and ferric compounds, have many uses.
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to बनाएँ a thermite reaction, used in welding and purifying ores.
It forms binary compounds with the हैलोजन्स और the chalcogens.
among इसके कार्बधातुक compounds is ferrocene, the first sandwich compound discovered.
Iron plays an important role in biology, forming complexes with molecular oxygen in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these दो यौगिकों हैं आम ऑक्सीजन transport proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is also the metal used at the active site of many important redox enzymes dealing with सेल्यूलर श्वसन and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals.
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ( bcbsa ) is a federation of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States.
Combined, they directly or indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे to over 99 million Americans.
the इतिहास of ब्लू क्रॉस dates back to 1929, while the history of Blue Shield dates to 1939.
The Blue Cross Association dates back to 1960, while its Blue Shield बंटवारा थी निर्मित in 1948.
The two organizations merged in 1982, forming the current association.
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, Singaporean, Hong Kong, South African and Jamaican English ; as a कुरकुरे in British English and Hiberno-English, and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
Potato chips are commonly served as an appetizer, side डिश, or स्नैक.
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings और संघटक including seasonings, herbs, spices, cheeses, and artificial additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may also refer to many different types of savory snack products sold in the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड, कुछ बना इससे आलू, लकिन may भी be बना इससे maize, tapioca or other cereals.
An example of these kinds of savory snacks is दानव चबाना.
आलू चिप्स हैं a predominant भाग of the snack food market in English-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations.
The global potato chip market generated total revenues of us $ 16.4 अरब in 2005.
This accounted for 35.5 % of the total savory snacks market in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, Sr. ( April 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852 ) थी a वकील, राजनेता और skilled orator जो represented Kentucky in both the Senate and in the House of Representatives.
He served three different terms as स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य House of Representatives and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829.
He lost his campaigns for president in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
Clay was a dominant figure in both the First and दूसरी पार्टी प्रणालियों.
As a leading war hawk in 1812, he favored युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन और निभाई a significant भूमिका in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812.
In 1824 he ran for president and lost, but threw his electoral votes to John Quincy Adams, who made उसे सचिव of राज्य as the jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate of the Whig Party, जिससे he संस्थापित और प्रायः dominated.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System, fighting for an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to फोस्टर उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य, the use of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure, and a strong national bank.
He opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it होता inject the slavery issue into politics.
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the `` Manifest Destiny `` policy of Democrats, which cost him votes in the close 1844 चुनाव.
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator, '' Clay brokered important compromises दौरान the nullification संकट और on the गुलामी issue.
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio, '' along with उसके सहयोगियों डेनियल वेबस्टर and John C. Calhoun, he was instrumental in formulating the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
He was viewed as the primary representative of Western interests in this group, and was given the names `` हेनरी of the वेस्ट '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A plantation owner, Clay held slaves दौरान उसके आजीवन लकिन freed them in his Will.
Abraham Lincoln, the Whig leader in Illinois, was a great admirer of Clay, saying he थी `` my ideal of a great man. ''
lincoln wholeheartedly supported Clay 's economic programs.
In 1957, a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of the five greatest U.S. Senators, साथ साथ डेनियल Webster, John C. Calhoun, Robert La Follette, and Robert Taft.
BJ 's Wholesale Club, Inc., commonly referred to simply as BJ 's, is a membership-only warehouse club chain operating on the United States East Coast, as well as in the state of Ohio.
The कम्पनी is क्रमित # 232 on सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 2010 लिस्टिंग of America 's 500 largest public corporations.
The Wizard of Oz, known during his reign as The Great and Powerful Oz, is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel emmannuel ambroise diggs, a fictional अक्षर in the जमीन of oz, निर्मित by American author L. Frank Baum.
The अक्षर थी further popularized by the classic 1939 movie, wherein his full name is not mentioned.
Kristinia जेमी debarge ( ; born कूच 8, 1990 ) is an American singer, songwriter, dancer and actress.
She first appeared on नेशनल television in 2003 as a contestant on the American Idol spin-off, American Juniors.
In 2009, DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records department Sodapop, releasing उसके डेब्यू एल्बम Exposed in July of the same year.
The first single, `` Goodbye ``, reached the शीर्ष 20 in the us और Canada.
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from her बेनाम sophomore एल्बम थी released on सितंबर 27, 2012.
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the University of hawaiʻi at mānoa in ncaa प्रभाग I FBS college football.
The टोली is coached by Norm Chow.
It was part of the Western एथलेटिक सम्मेलन जबतक जुलाई 2012, जब the टोली joined the Mountain West Conference.
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ team to play in a BCS कटोरी खेल ; खोने to जॉर्जिया 41–10 in the शुगर कटोरी on जनवरी 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Marvin gaye ( अप्रैल 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and musician.
gaye helped to आकार the ध्वनि of motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s साथ a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and let 's मिलेंगी it On and became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres ऐसे as शांत तूफ़ान और neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि प्रेम album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
स्थान of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat with chernobyl संयंत्र in the distance
abandoned आवास blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ), जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी ussr और Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately शामिल over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty गिनती of 31 मौतों रै महरूम विवादित, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to her husband as he सेट बंद on उसके यात्रा in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus, the Christmas gift-bringer in उत्तर अमरीकी और European Christmas tradition.
She is known for making cookies with the elves और तैयारी खिलौने साथ her husband Santa Claus.
Her first name is a mystery, though she has been referred to as Mary, Jessica, Layla, Annette, Heidi, or Martha.
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool for Microsoft खिड़कियाँ originally निर्मित by Merijn Bellekom, and later sold to Trend Micro.
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking विधि, बल्कि than relying on a database of known spyware.
It scans a user 's computer quickly, and displays browser hijacking locations, प्रर्दशित कया प्रविष्टियां are there.
hijackthis is प्रयुक्त primarily लिये निदान of browser hijacking, as uninformed use of its removal facilities can cause significant software damage to a computer.
hijackthis करता नहीं हटाएँ or detect स्पाइवेयर ; it lists most common locations where browser hijacking activity can occur.
Browser hijacking can कारण मैलवेयर to be installed on a computer.
on February 16, 2012, Trend Micro released the HijackThis source code as open source and it is now available on the SourceForge site.
Saddle Creek Records is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल आधारित in ओमाहा, Nebraska.
Started as a college class project on उद्यमिता, the लेबल थी संस्थापित by माइक mogis and Justin Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ).
Mogis soon turned over his role in the company to robb nansel.
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road, a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha, and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist, currently of Bright Eyes, Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley बैंड, desaparecidos और Monsters of Folk ), Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia, currently of Cursive and The Good Life ), and others.
Collectively, they were ज्ञात unofficially as the `` Creekers ''.
Saddle Creek first appeared in छपाई on a दिखाएँ flyer, offering to `` खर्च an evening with Saddle Creek '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD. )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated entity as a result of a class project on उद्यमिता.
Distribution is handled by the वैकल्पिक वितरण गठबंधन, which is under the Warner Music Group umbrella.
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a style of music called `` The ओमाहा ध्वनि ``, characterized by a पतला देश twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, though, with the rise of more electronic ध्वनि ऐसे as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat समझाया by उनके इतिहास ; a number of the original members of the label attended grade school together.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to काठी क्रीक is Team Love, started by Conor Oberst in 2004.
The label opened arms to their first bands not based in Omaha in 2001 with releases by Now It 's ओवरहेड and Sorry About Dresden.
Other non-nebraskan कलाकारों followed, including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley, Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers from North Carolina ), Georgie James ( Washington D.C. ), Two Gallants ( San Francisco ), and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ).
In 2005, Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek, a documentary detailing the पहला टेन सालो of the रिकार्ड label 's history, was released.
The DVD features extensive interviews with the Saddle Creek bands, archival फुटेज, and rare live performances.
On June 8, 2007, the label opened their own music venue named Slowdown ( after the group Slowdown वर्जिनिया ), स्तिथ in शहर ओमाहा, Nebraska.
The following is a सूची of एपीसोड for the television show Full House.
In total, there were 192 episodes filmed for the show over the कोर्स of इसके eight seasons, from 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a situation कॉमेडी जिससे क्रॉनिकल्स a widowed father 's struggles of raising his three young daughters and the lives that they have touched.
The patriarch of the परिवार, डैनी ( bob saget ), invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ), to help raise his children ( Candace Cameron, Jodie Sweetin, and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ), after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver.
After episodes 88 and 89, Jesse marries बेकी ( लोरी loughlin ), and they move into the attic.
तब, बाद एपीसोड 104 और 105, बेकी और जेसी have twin boys named Nicky and Alex ( Daniel and Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
The श्रेणी ends साथ एपीसोड 192, `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '', when Michelle loses her memory and the family tries to restore it.
Notice of Stamp Act of 1765 in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to the Stamp Act with anger and पूर्वानुमान of the demise of journalism.
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III, c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the British Parliament specifically on the colonies of British America, and it required that many मुद्रित सामग्री in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped पेपर उत्पादित in लंदन, carrying an embossed आय stamp.
These मुद्रित सामग्री were legal documents, magazines, newspapers and many other types of paper used throughout the colonies.
Like previous taxes, the stamp tax had to be paid in valid British currency, not in औपनिवेशिक पेपर धन.
The purpose of the tax was to help pay for सैनिकों stationed in उत्तर अमेरिका बाद the British victory in the Seven Years ' War.
The British government felt that the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of इस सैन्य उपस्थिति, और चाहिए pay at least a portion of the expense.
The स्टैम्प Act met great resistance in the colonies.
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament, and therefore had no influence over what taxes were raised, कैसा वे यहूद levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists considered it a violation of their rights as Englishmen to be taxed बगैर उनके सहमति —consent कि तभी the औपनिवेशिक legislatures could grant.
Colonial सभाओं भेजा याचिकाएं and protests.
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City, reflecting the first significant joint colonial response to any British measure, भी petitioned पार्लियामेंट और the King.
Local protest groups, led by colonial merchants and landowners, established connections through correspondence that created a ढीला गठबन्धन कि विस्तारित इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of Liberty often turned violent और destructive as the masses became involved.
Very soon all stamp tax distributors were intimidated into resigning उनके आयोग, और the tax was never effectively collected.
Opposition to the Stamp Act was not सीमित to the colonies.
British merchants and manufacturers, whose exports to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic problems exacerbated by the कर, भी pressured Parliament.
The Act was repealed on March 18, 1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience, लकिन पार्लियामेंट affirmed इसके शक्ति to legislate for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act.
There followed a श्रेणी of नई taxes and regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a major role in defining the grievances and enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक प्रतिरोध कि led to the American Revolution in 1775.
pt-105 underway.
PT नौकाएँ यहूद a किस्में of torpedo-armed तेज़ attack craft used by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships.
`` PT '' is the us हल वर्गीकरण symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo ''.
The pt नाव squadrons were nicknamed `` the mosquito fleet ''.
The Japanese पुकारा them `` Devil Boats ''.
The original pre– World War I torpedo नौकाएँ यहूद designed with `` displacement '' hulls.
They displaced up to 300 टन और the top speed was.
The PT नौकाएँ प्रयुक्त in संसार युद्ध ii were built using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats.
They were much smaller ( 30–75 टन ) और faster ( 35–40 knots ).
Both types were designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships साथ torpedoes, using अपेक्षाकृत high speed to get close, and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire.
They यहूद much कम महंगी than large warships.
PT boats were much faster, smaller, and सस्ता than conventional ( विस्थापन हल ) vessels.
During World War II, American pt नौकाएँ सगाई दुश्मन destroyers और numerous other surface craft, ranging from small boats to large supply ships.
PT boats also operated as gunboats against enemy small craft, such as कराया barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport.
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of यीशु मसीह और उसके मौत at कलवारी.
The holiday is observed दौरान पावन सप्ताह as भाग of the Paschal Triduum on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday, and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is also known as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black Friday, or Easter Friday, though the latter properly refers to the शुक्रवार in Easter week.
Based on the details of the canonical gospels, the Crucifixion of Jesus was most likely to have been on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33, by two different समूह, और originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars and the crescent of the moon.
A third method, using a completely अलग खगोलीय approach based on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter 's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ), points to Friday, 3 April AD 33.
the ग्रेट जलाशय is the largest area of endorheic watersheds in North America.
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography that varies from the North American low point at badwater जलाशय to the उच्चतम पाइंट of the संलग्न United States, less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney.
The region spans several physiographic विभाजन, biomes / ecoregions, and deserts.
रास्टर may refer to:
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स, आलेखीय techniques using arrays of pixel values
Raster ग्राफिक्स एडिटर, a computer program
Raster scan, the pattern of image readout, हस्तांतरण, storage, and reconstruction in television and computer images
Rasterisation, or rasterization, परिवर्तन of a vector image to a raster image
Raster image processor, or RIP, a component of a printing system that performs rasterisation
रास्टर इन्टरनेट, a computer interrupt signal
Raster to vector, an image परिवर्तन process
Raster bar, an प्रभाव प्रयुक्त in computer demos
raster-noton, a record label
Rastrum, a device used in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक पांडुलिपियों to draw staff lines
Raster Document ऑब्जेक्ट, a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned king in the epic poem named बाद उसे, एक of the oldest surviving टुकड़े of साहित्य in the English language.
The attack on Pearl हार्बर ( पुकारा हवाई आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the जापानी Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
इससे the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त किंगडम, the नीदरलैंड्स, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 जापानी सेनानी, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in two waves, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. नेवी battleships यहूद damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and साथ the बाकी चार repaired, छह battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 u.S. वायुयान यहूद destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base संस्थापना ऐसे as the शक्ति स्टेशन, डॉकयार्ड, मेंटेनेंस, और ईंधन and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and पाँच midget submarines खोया, और 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor was captured.
The attack आए as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the United राज्य घोषित war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, which had महरूम दमदार, disappeared.
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
U.S. रूट 85 ( us 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त States highway that runs for in the Mountain - Northern Plains states of the United States.
The southern टर्मिनस of the रूट is at the संयुक्त states-mexico किनारा in el पासो, Texas, connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45.
The northern terminus is at the United states-canada किनारा in fortuna, उत्तर डकोटा, जहाँ the route continues north as Saskatchewan Highway 35.
in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य and Saskatchewan, Canada the route is known as the CanAm Highway.
Sections of US 85 are considered part of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former Vice-President Richard Nixon, won the election over the Democratic nominee, लाज़िम Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected लिये the पहला समय in बारह years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the स्वदेश, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी, फैली विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध आरपार university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former अलबामा राज्यपाल George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त स्कूल पृथक्करण, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which New यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, California gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर state.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '', `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '', `` anvir कार्य मैनेजर '', `` प्रक्रम Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, और shut bas, restart, hibernate or log बंद इससे खिड़कियाँ.
Windows Task Manager थी introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the Task List application, which had far fewer features.
The task list was capable of listing currently कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें, or बनाना a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to standby, hibernate, फेरे बंद, Restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running.
This file was executed by कार्यशील the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system साथ साथ hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet.
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the चाइनीज वर्ण वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` Han characters '' and is written using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R Williams ( May 4, 1782 – October 20, 1854 ) was an American soldier, merchant, and politician who is most well known for serving as the पहला महापौर of डेट्रॉयट, मिशिगन.
In total, he served as Detroit 's महापौर लिये पाँच other terms.
He also was a brigadier general in the संयुक्त राज्य फौज दौरान the Black Hawk War.
A simple dry magnetic पोर्टेबल कम्पास.
A smartphone that can be used as a compass क्युकी of the magnetometer inside.
An iPhone that can be used as a geological compass because of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer अंदर it
A military compass that थी प्रयुक्त दौरान संसार War I.
A कम्पास is a navigational यंत्र कि shows directions in a frame of reference that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth.
The frame of सन्दर्भ defines the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश ( or points ) – north, south, east, and west.
Intermediate directions are भी पारिभाषित.
Usually, a diagram called a compass rose, which shows the दिशानिर्देश ( साथ उनके names प्रायः abbreviated to आद्याक्षर ), is marked on the compass.
When the compass is in use, the rose is aligned with the real directions in the frame of सन्दर्भ, so, लिये उदाहरण, the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north.
Frequently, in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it, angle markings in डिग्री हैं shown on the compass.
North corresponds to zero degrees, and the angles increase clockwise, so ईस्ट is 90 डिग्री, south is 180, and west is 270.
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or bearings, which are commonly stated in इस संकेतन.
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device for divination as early as the चाइनीज हान राजवंश ( Since about 206 BC ).
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, and was used for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117.
The use of a compass is recorded in Western यूरोपीय between 1187 and 1202, and in Persia in 1232.
The dry compass was invented in Europe around 1300.
इस थी supplanted in the early 20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic compass.
The Inca Empire or Inka साम्राज्य ( quechua : tawantinsuyu ) was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America.
The administrative, political and military center of the empire was located in कुज़्को in modern-day पेरू.
The Inca सभ्यता arose इससे the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century.
From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a variety of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain ranges, including, besides Peru, large parts of modern Ecuador, western and दक्षिण सेंट्रल बोलीविया, उत्तरपश्चिम अर्जेंटीना, उत्तर और सेंट्रल चिली, और दक्षिणी कोलंबिया into a राज्य comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia.
The official भाषा of the साम्राज्य थी quechua, although hundreds of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken.
The Inca referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be अनूदित as the चार regions or the चार संयुक्त Provinces.
There were many local forms of worship, most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas ``, लकिन the इन्का नेतृत्व प्रोत्साहित the इबादत of inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama.
The Incas considered their King, the Sapa इन्का, to be the `` child of the sun. ''
The गुर्दे हैं अंगों कि serve several essential regulatory roles in most animals, including vertebrates and some invertebrates.
They are essential in the urinary प्रणाली और भी serve homeostatic कृत्यों ऐसे as the विनियमन of electrolytes, maintenance of acid–base balance, and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ).
They serve the body as a प्राकृतिक फिल्टर of the blood, and remove wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium, and they are also जिम्मेदार लिये the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids.
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the enzyme renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the गुर्दे प्राप्त रक्त from the paired renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins.
प्रत्येक गुर्दा excretes मूत्र into a ureter, itself a paired structure that empties into the urinary bladder.
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function, while nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty concerned with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the गुर्दा हैं विविध, लकिन individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic clinical features.
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic and nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, अधि गुर्दा injury, chronic kidney disease, urinary tract infection, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the सबसे आम वयस्क renal कर्कट is renal cell carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, and some अन्य renal शर्तें can be managed with removal of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration रेट, is persistently ग़रीब, dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options.
Although they are not severely harmful, kidney stones can be दुखद और a nuisance.
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break up the पत्थरों into छोटी टुकड़े, जिससे हैं तब passed through the urinary tract.
One common symptom of kidney stones is a sharp pain in the medial/lateral खण्ड of the निम्नतर वापस.
Lockton कंपनियाँ inc. is the संसार 's largest privately आयोजित insurance brokerage firm, providing insurance, risk management and employee benefits solutions.
In addition to its कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी मुख्यालय, Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries.
Lockton is currently home to more than 4,450 शरीक विश्वव्यापी.
The company was founded by Jack lockton in 1966 और रै चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm.
Lockton serves a wide array of industries with services that include risk प्रबन्धन, casualty, surety, पेशेवर indemnity and more.
For 46 years, lockton posted असाधारण सशुल्क growth, with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012.
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s कर्मचारी benefit’s टोली works closely साथ बीमे carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients.
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including अनुपालन, कार्यपालिका लाभ, स्वास्थ्य and welfare, health risk solutions, retirement and more.
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity, an affiliate of Lockton Companies, meets the बीमे needs of अपनापन समूह, franchises, professional organizations, and associations of all sizes.
lockton Affinity offers a variety of insurance product options and programs.
Products include : General Liability, Professional Liability, Property, Workers Compensation, Directors & Officers Liability, Commercial Auto, specialty कवरेज, excess, स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ और more.
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय : lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय operates offices in the UK and Ireland, as well as offices throughout Asia and Latin America.
In Europe, Lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय is a संगी in eos risq, Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk management consultancy.
eos risq is an equity-based European partnership of major independent insurance brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe.
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय provides specialized solutions for personal lines, SME’s and major multi-national clients.
White chocolate is a चॉकलेट derivative.
It commonly consists of cocoa butter, sugar, milk solids and salt, and is characterized by a पाले पीला or आइवरी रूप.
The melting पाइंट of cocoa मक्खन, इसके प्राथमिक cocoa bean component, is high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born कूच 14, 1950 ) was Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co., the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States.
He served in those भूमिकाएँ इससे नवम्बर 30, 2000, until December 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और भागीदार in लोकल and state politics, especially in his home state of West Virginia.
He has frequently spoken out सरेआम परिचय राजनीती, the environment, unions, and coal production.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings दिखाएँ blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8 million in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
His 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 और almost double his compensation package in 2007.
Blankenship भी प्राप्त a deferred compensation package valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
On December 3, 2010, Blankenship announced that he was retiring as सीईओ at the समाप्त of the साल, and would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr.
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in English to describe a dog 's bark.
Bow wow may also refer to:
धनुष wow ( बैंड ), a Japanese hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper ), an American rapper and actor
Bow Wow Sauce, a sauce developed in the cotswolds प्रदेश of England
Bow wow wow, a UK new wave band
`` Bow Wow '', a song by The Fiery Furnaces from their 2003 एल्बम gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '', a song composed in the 1920s by Cliff dost & nat ओसबोर्न
Negligence ( Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally `` not to pick up something '' ) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances.
The area of tort law known as लापरवाही involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness, not intentional harm.
According to Jay M. feinman of the rutgers University School of Law ;
`` The core idea of negligence is that people should exercise reasonable परवाह जब वे अधिनियम by लेने खाता of the संभावित नुक़सान कि वे might foreseeably cause harm to other people. ''
`` those who go personally or bring property जहाँ वे जान कि वे or it may आइये into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision. ''
Fletcher v rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
Through civil litigation, if an injured person proves that another person acted negligently to कारण their injury, they can recover damages to compensate for their harm.
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the घायल अभियोक्ता to compensation for harm to their body, property, mental well-being, financial status, or intimate relationships.
However, because negligence cases are very fact-specific, this general definition does not fully explain the concept of when the law will require one व्यक्ति to compensate another लिये नुकसान caused by आकस्मिक चोट.
Further, the law of negligence at common विधि is तभी एक पहलू of the विधि of liability.
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover compensation in a negligence action, the प्रकृति और extent of those क्षतिपूर्ति हैं नहीं the primary focus of negligence cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion कि contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ).
Some स्त्रोत equate the term mole with `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other sources reserve the term `` mole '' for other उद्देश्य.
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades of a person’s life, जबकि परिचय एक in प्रत्येक 100 शिशु is born with moles.
Acquired moles are a form of benign neoplasm, while जन्मजात औज़ार, or जन्मजात nevi, हैं माना a नाबालिग malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk for melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented growth on the skin, formed mostly of a type of cell known as a melanocyte.
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent, melanin, is responsible for their dark color.
Moles are a member of the family of स्किन lesions ज्ञात as nevi.
The comprehensive metabolic फलक, or रासायनिक स्क्रीन, ( cmp ; cpt कोड 80053 ) is a फलक of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool.
the cmp provides a अशिष्ट जाँच of kidney function, liver function, and electrolyte and fluid balance, but it is far from perfect.
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives and thus the CBC may need to be repeated लिये a रोगी ( or replaced साथ a अधिक विशिष्ट test ).
The CMP is an expanded version of the basic metabolic फलक ( bmp ), जिससे does not include liver tests.
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination, or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease, such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names for the panel of tests have महरूम chem 12, रसायन फलक, Chemistry screen, SMA 12, SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ).
The tests are performed on मशीने आधारित on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas extraction by देशों in घन meters per year.
प्राकृतिक गैस is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane, but commonly including varying amounts of other hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and hydrogen sulfide.
Natural gas is an उर्जा source often used for heating, cooking, and electricity generation.
It is also used as ईंधन लिये वाहनों और as a रासायनिक फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture of plastics and other commercially important organic chemicals.
Natural gas is found in deep underground natural rock formations or associated with अन्य हाइड्रोकार्बन टंकी in कोयले beds and as methane clathrates.
Petroleum is भी another संसाधन found in proximity to and with natural gas.
Most प्राकृतिक gas was created over time by two mechanisms : biogenic and thermogenic.
Biogenic gas is created by methanogenic जीवों in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at greater temperature and pressure, thermogenic गैस is निर्मित इससे दफ्न organic material.
Before प्राकृतिक गैस can be प्रयुक्त as a ईंधन, it जरूर undergo processing to remove impurities, including water, to meet the specifications of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of processing include ethane, propane, butanes, pentanes, और उच्चतर आणविक वज़न hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ), carbon dioxide, water vapor, and sometimes helium and nitrogen.
Natural gas is often informally referred to बस as gas, especially when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal.
This page is about the कल्पना मूवर्स band.
For information about the tv दिखाएँ अभिनीत the band, see Imagination Movers ( TV series ).
Imagination Movers is a band formed in New ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, in 2003.
The lineup शामिल समृद्ध Collins, Scott Durbin, Dave Poche, and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith.
Members of the group were longtime मित्रों और पड़ोसी.
The group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to लोकल pbs affiliates in नई Orleans.
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to Beth Courtney, the President & Chief Executive अधिकारी at louisiana पब्लिक प्रसारण.
Soon बाद, lpb began airing one-minute videos produced by the Imagination Movers themselves.
The Movers built a sizable regional following by setting educational songs for kids to melodies and rhythms कि वयस्कों कद्र as well.
They sold more than 100,000 नक़ल of उनके self-produced CDs and DVDs.
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas, '' `` Calling All Movers, '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass roots DVD `` Stir It Up '' have, combined, won fourteen national awards, from such groups as the नेशनल संघ of परवरिश publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice.
In early 2005, डिज़्नी took notice, and initiated negotiations to add the Movers to the company 's roster.
These were interrupted in August when the flood protection designed and built by the फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स to protect New Orleans failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the बैंड 's दफ्तर, as खूब as the घरों of Collins, Durbin and Poche – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, Walt Disney Records introduced the Imagination Movers ' music to the nation with the release of the मूवर्स ' पहला nationally-released cd, `` रस Box Heroes. ''
In September 2008, a 30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the group began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as Playhouse Disney, and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement, Disney Junior.
The Movers write and perform all the songs on उनके दिखाएँ.
Moreover, the Imagination Movers have received critical kudos for their live concert प्रदर्शन.
In October 2009, the Imagination Movers started the `` Live from the Idea गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे 2009 ''.
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live प्रदर्शन शामिल लोट of उनके favorite songs and dancing, as well as video appearances of Warehouse Mouse.
Beginning in early-February 2011 और wrapping up in लेट may 2011, the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम Concert Tour, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America.
From March to October 2012, the Imagination Movers toured North अमेरिका on उनके post-disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour.
The show maintained अनेक तत्व of the असली tv अवधारणा, ऐसे as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their older catalogue ; however, with the departure of Wendy Calio back to her native Hawaii, the character `` Nina '', along with her musical numbers, is not present.
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/dvd रिलीज, `` rock-o-matic '', which features all new music from the band.
The album itself is उत्पादित independently of डिज़्नी और has a notably more mature, contemporary rock-and-roll sound, though still very appropriate for children.
Several performance dates यहूद स्थानांतरित to बाद in 2012 to लाभ from the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers TV show now playing daily on Disney Junior.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together with the four species of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the तभी स्तनधारियों कि lay अंडे बजाय of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), though a number of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति have महरूम मिला in the चट्टान रिकार्ड.
The असामान्य रूप of इस egg-laying, बतख -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स.
Until the early 20th सदी, it थी hunted लिये इसके fur, but it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण, it is not under any immediate threat.
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras (, from chupar `` to suck '' and cabra `` goat '', literally `` बकरी चूषक '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas.
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly अनजान एनिमल in प्यूर्टो रीको ( जहाँ ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ), Mexico, and the United States, especially in the latter 's Latin American communities.
The name comes from the animal 's reported आदत of attacking और पीने the blood of livestock, especially goats.
Physical descriptions of the creature vary.
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico, and have since been reported as far north as maine, और as दूर दक्षिण as चिली, और भी होने spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines.
It is माना a भारी प्राणी, the size of a small bear, with a row of spines reaching from the neck to the base of the tail.
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण, जबकि सबसे reports in northern Mexico and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange.
Biologists and wildlife प्रबन्धन officials view the chupacabra as a contemporary legend.
The North American फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध ( nafta ) is an agreement signed by Canada, Mexico, and the United States, creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America.
The अनुबंध आए into force on January 1, 1994.
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade अनुबंध between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American अनुबंध on पर्यावरणीय सहयोग ( NAAEC ) and the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment and is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ).
Maintaining this standard of थर्मल सुकून लिये occupants of इमारतें or अन्य enclosures is one of the important goals of HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) design engineers.
The Predicted Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands among the most recognized थर्मल सुकून मॉडल.
It was developed using principles of heat balance and प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु chamber under steady state conditions.
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in a controlled climate, it is not suitable for अनुप्रयोग in naturally हवादार स्पेसेस जिससे often have high levels of air movement.
This shortcoming motivated the विकास of a परिवार of अनुभवजन्य सांख्यिकीय models of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models.
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting साथ उनके environment, and controlling their thermal comfort by means of clothing or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed buildings, in which occupants experience the पर्यावरण passively.
थर्मल सुकून is प्रभावित by ऊष्मा conduction, convection, radiation, and evaporative heat loss.
Thermal comfort is कायम जब the ऊष्मा उत्पन्न by human metabolism is allowed to dissipate, thus maintaining thermal equilibrium with the surroundings.
It has been long recognized that the sensation of feeling hot or cold is not just dependent on air temperature alone.
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 can be freely performed साथ the cbe थर्मल सुकून औजार for ASHRAE-55.
Durante degli Alighieri, simply referred to as Dante (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), थी a major Italian poet of the Middle Ages.
His Divine Comedy, originally पुकारा ' और बाद पुकारा ' by boccaccio, is widely माना the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature.
In Italy he is known as ' ( `` the परम् कवि '' ) or just '.
He, Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known as `` the three स्रोतों '' or `` the three crowns ''.
Dante is also called the `` पिता of the इतालवी language ''.
मुख्यालय ( Kobe, Japan )
( ) is a tire and rubber कम्पनी आधारित in Japan.
It is भाग of the Sumitomo Group.
The company traces its origins to 1909, when the Sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British कम्पनी dunlop रबर.
over the सालो sumitomo और Dunlop developed a close business relationship, and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd.
in 1985, जब dunlop रबर थी taken over by BTR plc, the company acquired the automobile tire assets of Dunlop, including the right to use the Dunlop brand on automobile tires.
The acquisition did not include the US and Australian businesses, which were separately owned, but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US इससे इसके प्रबन्धन.
In 1997, Sumitomo formed a joint venture with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, by which Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture टायर लिये प्रत्येक अन्य 's बाज़ार, सहित Dunlop branded tires.
As part of the अनुबंध, goodyear acquired 75 % रूचि in dunlop Tyres, the UK company which Sumitomo had formed, and in Dunlop Tire Corporation.
Goodyear and sumitomo भी made investments in each other.
Today, the company makes a wide range of rubber based products, सहित ऑटोमोबाइल टायर, golf balls and tennis balls.
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated development environments ( IDE ) developed by Microsoft that are lightweight versions of the Microsoft Visual स्टुडियो उत्पाद line.
Express Editions were conceived शुरूआत साथ Visual Studio 2005.
The idea of एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use and easy-to-learn IDEs for users other than professional software developers, such as hobbyists and students.
The Alps are एक of the ग्रेट पहाड़ दायरा प्रणालियों of यूरोपीय stretching approximately across eight Alpine countries from Austria and Slovenia in the east, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south.
The mountains were formed over hundreds of millions of years as the African and यूरेशियाई tectonic प्लेटों collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding into ऊँची पहाड़ चोटियों ऐसे as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian border, and at is the उच्चतम पहाड़ in the Alps.
The Alpine region area contains many चोटियों उच्चतर than, ज्ञात as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in the mountains precipitation levels vary greatly and climatic शर्तें consist of पृथक zones.
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher peaks to elevations of, and plants such as Edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations.
प्रमाण of इंसान habitation in the Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era.
A mummified man, determined to be 5,000 years old, was discovered on a glacier at the austrian–italian border in 1991.
By the 6th century bc, the सेल्टिक la tène culture was well established.
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps with a herd of elephants, and the romans था settlements in the region.
In 1800 Napoleon crossed एक of the mountain passes with an army of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists, writers, and कलाकारों, in particular the Romantics, followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries, with the exception of Switzerland and liechtenstein ; एडोल्फ हिटलर kept a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war.
The Alpine प्रदेश रै a दमदार cultural identity.
The traditional culture of farming, cheesemaking, and woodworking still exists in Alpine गांवों, हालांकि the पर्यटक उद्योग began to grow जल्दी in the 20th century and expanded greatly after World War II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century.
The Winter Olympic Games have महरूम hosted in the Swiss, French, Italian, Austrian and German Alps.
At present the region is home to 14 million people and has 120 लाख सालाना visitors.
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a character from the animated टेलीविज़न श्रेणी Family Guy.
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television, along with the rest of the परिवार in the 15-minute छोटी on दिसम्बर 20, 1998.
Lois was created and designed by series निर्माता सेठ MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve, a short made by MacFarlane which featured a middle-aged character named Larry और an बौद्धिक श्वान, स्टीव.
After the pilot was given the green light, the Griffin परिवार appeared on the एपीसोड `` मौत Has a Shadow ``.
Lois is the माँ of the Griffin family.
With her husband Peter, she has had three children : मेग, क्रिस, और Stewie.
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother, despite उसके admitting to होने a ड्रग उपयोक्ता, a recovering मेथ addict kleptomaniac.
Lois has also had several affairs, one of which allegedly resulted in the धारणा of Meg.
She has appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a video game, commercials और books—and प्रेरित an संपूर्ण लकीर of merchandise.
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated from a character in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in, जिससे थी largely प्रेरित by a relative who grew up on Long Island, New York.
Family transmission of Basque language ( Basque as initial भाषा )
Percentage of students registered in Basque language स्कूलों ( 2000–2005 ).
Location of the Basque-language provinces within स्पेन और फ़्रांस
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque लोगों, जो inhabit the बास्क Country, a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France.
It is spoken by 27 % of basques in सब territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ).
Of these, 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the बास्क देश और the remaining 51,100 live in the French part.
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France, it is customary to refer to three ancient प्रांतों in फ़्रांस और चार स्पेनी प्रांतों.
देशी अध्यक्षों हैं concentrated in a संलग्न area including parts of the Spanish autonomous communities of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic बास्क देश incorporating the परंपरागत स्पेनी प्रांतों of biscay, gipuzkoa, और álava, जिससे retain उनके existence as politico-administrative divisions.
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques, but Basque was, at least until the 1990s, not spoken as a native भाषा in सबसे of álava, पश्चिमी भाग of biscay और सेंट्रल और दक्षिणी क्षेत्रों of Navarre, either because it had been replaced by Spanish along the centuries, in some areas, or because it had never been spoken there, in other areas.
In southwestern France, the ancient Basque-populated provinces were labourd, निम्नतर नावारा, और Soule.
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées, a name which persisted until 1970.
A standardized form of the Basque भाषा, पुकारा euskara batua, थी developed by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s.
Euskara Batua थी निर्मित so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal situations ( education, mass media, literature ), and this is its main use today.
The role of this standard Basque language depends on the linguistic educational मॉडल of प्रत्येक प्रदेश and each school.
In most areas of the Spanish Basque Country, the educational Model D, where all subjects are taught in बास्क, मगर `` स्पेनी भाषा और साहित्य '' ( जिससे is सिखाया in Spanish ) is now the predominant model.
In France, the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide दायरा of बास्क भाषा शैक्षणिक needs up to the छठे रूप, जबकि often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints.
Apart from this standardized version, there are five main Basque dialects : Bizkaian, Gipuzkoan, and Upper Navarrese in Spain, and navarrese–lapurdian और zuberoan ( in फ़्रांस ).
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces, the dialect boundaries are not congruent with province boundaries.
The President, Directors and Company, of the Bank of the United States, commonly known as the First Bank of the United States, थी a सेंट्रल बैंको, चार्टर्ड for a term of twenty years, by the United States Congress on February 25, 1791.
Establishment of the Bank was included in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and monetary power ( साथ साथ a संघीय मिंट और excise कर ) championed by सिकंदर Hamilton, first Secretary of the Treasury.
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize और improve the स्वदेश 's credit, and to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution.
Officially proposed to the first सत्र of the पहला कॉंग्रेस in 1790, Hamilton 's Bank faced widespread resistance from opponents of increased federal power.
Secretary of राज्य थामस जेफरसन और जेम्स Madison led the opposition, which claimed that the bank was unconstitutional, and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population.
The पहला बैंको भवन is अभी a National Historic Landmark located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park.
James Wesley Marsters ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी actor and musician.
Marsters first came to the ध्यान of the सामान्य पब्लिक playing the लोकप्रिय अक्षर स्पाइक, a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
Since then, he has gone on to play other science fiction roles, such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series Smallville, the omnisexual time मुसाफ़िर कप्तान जॉन हार्ट in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica.
marsters appeared in a supporting role in the 2007 movie P.S.
i प्रेम तुम और as the प्रमुख विपक्षी, Piccolo, in the 2009 fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution.
He appeared as a recurring character in the पहला ऋतु of the revival of Hawaii 5-0.
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore, elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं गर्भवती can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether this production is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of males और females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, known by उसके स्टेज नाम बेयोंस ( ; born सितंबर 4, 1981 ), is an American singer, songwriter, dancer, and actress.
Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she performed in गायन और नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड पहले forming in 1990 a group with Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child.
Once signed to Columbia Records, the लड़कियों subsequently became एक of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time.
The group was plagued by आतंरिक conflict and legal turmoil and Knowles suffered from depression that lasted for a number of years.
During the group 's hiatus, Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ), which earned her five ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और रै बेची a कुल of 4.9 लाख नक़ल in the US alone.
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love, '' considered by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song Of the 00 's, '' and `` Baby Boy. ''
Following the disbandment of नियति 's चाइल्ड in 2005, Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` Déjà Vu ``, `` Irreplaceable ``, and `` Beautiful Liar ``.
Her प्रदर्शन in dreamgirls ( 2006 ) अर्जित her two Golden Globe nominations.
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in that film inspired her subsequent एल्बम i am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` If I Were a Boy ``, `` Single Ladies ( Put a रिंग on it ) ``, `` हेलो ``, और `` मीठी सपनो ``.
The album also helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010, breaking the record for most ग्रैमी पुरस्कार जीती by a मादा कलाकार in एक night.
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards परंपरागत R & B and became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200.
In January 2012, Knowles दिया जनम to daughter Blue Ivy Carter, her first child with husband Jay-Z.
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 million records with नियति 's चाइल्ड ), और is एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of all time.
The रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of America ( RIAA ) recognized Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s.
In 2009, Billboard named her the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and ranked her the Top Female Artist और the चौथी कलाकार of the Decade.
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award इतिहास, receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; अन्य accolades शामिल 12 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक Awards, 7 Billboard Awards including a Millennium Award, and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child.
`` Angry All the Time '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by Bruce Robison and first recorded on his 1998 album Wrapped.
It was बाद covered by टिम McGraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill.
Released in July 2001, McGraw 's संस्करण थी the दूसरी सिंगल इससे mcgraw 's नियत इस Circus Down album.
The सोंग पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks ( now Hot Country Songs ) charts.
Dear John is a 2010 American रोमांटिक नाटक - युद्ध फिल्मी अभिनीत अमांडा Seyfried and Channing Tatum.
It थी released theatrically in North America on February 5, 2010.
The film was directed by Lasse hallström, और it is an अनुकूलन of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name.
It follows the life of a soldier ( Channing Tatum ) after he falls in love साथ a यंग स्त्री ( अमांडा seyfried ).
They decide to exchange letters to each other after he is तैनात to the war.
the फिल्म थी फिल्माया in 2009 in Charleston, South Carolina.
Despite receiving negative reviews, the film made a strong box office performance, knocking off Avatar after सात सप्ताहांत in पहला प्लेस और grossing a कुल of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The film was released on May 25, 2010 on DVD और blu-ray.
These are सूचियाँ of the व्यस्ततम एयरपोर्ट in the United States.
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the व्यस्ततम सिंगल airport in the United States.
However, all of the New यॉर्क नगर महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to create the largest airport system in the United States, second in the world in terms of passenger traffic, and first in the world in terms of total flight operations.
Dora the एक्सप्लोरर is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न series created by Chris Gifford, Valerie Walsh, and Eric Weiner.
Dora the एक्सप्लोरर became a नियमित series in 2000.
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable television network, सहित the संबद्ध उपनाम jr. channel.
It aired on CBS जबतक September 2006.
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through September 2006 ; since April 2008, this संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम रै महरूम carried on univision as part of the Planeta U block.
सांता fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge, ) ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico.
It is the fourth-largest city in the राज्य और is the सीट of.
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County और is भाग of the larger albuquerque-santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area.
The city’s full name when founded was La Villa Real de la सांता fé de सैन फ्रांसिस्को de Asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink कि is उत्पादित और manufactured by पेप्सिको.
निर्मित और विकसित in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of American patriots that originated in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी British colonies.
The समूह थी formed to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by the British government.
They are best known for undertaking the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी in 1773, which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense crackdown by the British government ), and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
ओसाका किला
is a city in the Kansai region of Japan 's main island of Honshu, a designated city under the Local Autonomy Law, the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest भाग of the keihanshin metropolis, जिससे comprises तीन प्रमुख शहरों of जापानी, क्योटो, ओसाका and Kobe.
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay, Osaka is Japan 's third largest नगर by जनसांख्यिकी बाद टोकियो ( खास wards ) and Yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest महानगर क्षेत्रों अत्यधिक क्रमित in the world, with nearly 19 million people, and by GDP the second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world.
Historically the commercial center of Japan, Osaka functions as one of the कमांड centers लिये the जापानी economy.
The ratio between daytime and night time population is 141 %, the highest in जापानी, highlighting its status as an economic center.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million, the third in the country, but in daytime the जनसांख्यिकी surges to 3.7 लाख, दूसरी तभी बाद टोकियो ( combining the special wards of Tokyo, which is not a single incorporated city, for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in सामंती ईदो काल क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of trading for rice, creating the first modern futures exchange market in the world.
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney विशेषता एनिमेशन और वितरित by Walt Disney Pictures.
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen, The Little Mermaid tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत mermaid who dreams of becoming human.
Written, directed, and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker, with music by एलन menken और हावर्ड ashman, the फिल्मी सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें jodi बेंसन, क्रिस्टोफर डेनियल barnes, Pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Jason Marin, Kenneth Mars, Buddy Hacket, and Rene Auberjonois.
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series, The Little मरमेड थी released to थिएटर on नवम्बर 14, 1989 to largely धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ, garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial release, and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross.
After the success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated विशेषता films बाद a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or वाणिज्यिक असफलताओं उत्पादित by डिज़्नी that dated back to the early 1970s.
It also marked the start of the era known as the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
A स्टेज अनुकूलन of the फिल्मी साथ a किताब by डग राइट और अतिरिक्त गीतों by एलन Menken and new lyricist Glenn Slater opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up photo of a मेटल चमचा filled with a viscous, clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug popular in the hip हॉप जातियाँ in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य, originating in Houston, Texas.
Its main ingredient is नुस्खा -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough syrup is typically mixed with ingredients such as Sprite soft drink or Mountain Dew and टुकड़े of प्रसन्न rancher कैंडी.
The purplish hue of purple drank comes from dyes in the खांसी syrup.
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank, including sizzurp, lean, syrup, drank, barre, purple jelly, Texas tea, and tsikuni.
First/given, middle, और last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as example.
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members and many विस्तारित परिवार सदस्यों.
He साझा उसके परिवार name with most family members.
A given name, in Western contexts often referred to as a पहला नाम, is a निजी नाम कि specifies और differentiates between members of a group of individuals, especially in a family, all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ).
A given name is purposefully given, usually by a child 's parents at or near birth, in कंट्रास्ट to an inherited एक ऐसे as a family name.
A given name is sometimes legally changed through a name change.
Given names are often used in a familiar and दोस्ताना manner in informal situations.
In more formal situations the surname is used instead, unless it is necessary to फर्क between लोगों साथ the वही उपनाम.
The idiom `` on a first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a given name.
The western style of having both a परिवार नाम ( उपनाम ) and a given name is far from universal.
In many countries it is common for ordinary people to have only one name ( a mononym ).
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is a clear, colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water.
It is a अत्यधिक क्षयकारी, दमदार खनिज acid with many industrial uses.
Hydrochloric acid is found naturally in gastric acid.
Historically पुकारा muriatic एसिड, और आत्माओं of नमक, hydrochloric acid was produced from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt.
It first appeared during the Renaissance, and then it was used by chemists such as Glauber, Priestley और डेवी in उनके वैज्ञानिक research.
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale उत्पादन of विनाइल chloride for PVC plastic, and MDI / TDI for polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale applications, including household cleaning, production of जिलेटिन और अन्य खाना एडिटिव, descaling, and leather processing.
About 20 लाख टन of hydrochloric acid are produced annually.
Wheat ( Triticum spp. ) is a cereal grain, originally from the Levant region of the निकट ईस्ट और ethiopian हाइलैंड्स, but now cultivated worldwide.
In 2010, world उत्पादन of गेहूं थी 651 million tons, making it the third most-produced cereal after maize ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ).
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in that year was 682 million tons, after maize ( 817 लाख टन ), और साथ राइस as a बंद तीसरा ( 679 million tons ).
इस अनाज is grown on more land area than any other commercial food.
World व्यापार in wheat is greater than for all other crops combined.
Globally, wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human food, having a उच्चतर प्रोटीन सामग्री than soybeans or the अन्य प्रमुख cereals, maize ( corn ) or rice.
In terms of total उत्पादन tonnages प्रयुक्त for food, it is currently second to rice as the main human food crop and ahead of maize, after allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds.
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of civilization because it was one of the first फसलों कि could be easily cultivated on a विशाल स्केल, और had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the fertile crescent, सहित the Babylonian and Assyrian empires.
Wheat अनाज is a स्टेपल खाना प्रयुक्त to मेक आटा लिये leavened, चपटा और steamed breads, बिस्कुट, cookies, cakes, breakfast cereal, pasta, noodles, couscous and for fermentation to make beer, other alcoholic beverages, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock, and its straw can be प्रयुक्त as a निर्माण सामग्री लिये roofing फूस.
The whole grain can be milled to leave बस the भ्रूणपोष लिये श्वेत आटा.
The by-products of इस हैं bran and germ.
The whole अनाज is a concentrated सोर्स of विटामिन, minerals, and protein, while the refined grain is mostly starch.
मुद्रण
To प्रकाशित is to make content available to the general public.
While specific use of the पद may vary among देशों, it is प्रायः लागू to टेक्स्ट, बिंब, or other audio-visual content on any traditional medium, including paper ( newspapers, magazines, catalogs, etc. ).
The word publication means the act of प्रकाशन, और भी refers to any printed copies.
Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family original television series अभिनीत मेलिसा जोन हार्ट और Joey Lawrence.
It first aired on एबीसी परिवार on August 17, 2010.
The series follows local politician Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ), जिसको mel hires to dekh बाद उसके भांजी और भतीजे after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen episodes, जिससे began airing on May 30, 2012 and ended on August 29, 2012.
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target ऑडियंस 18–34, 18–49 और 12–34 जनसांख्यिकी.
On August 17, 2012, ABC Family renewed Melissa & Joey for a third season, नियत to प्रीमियर in spring 2013.
The Dharma wheel, often used to represent the प्रतिष्ठित Eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold Path (, ) is one of the principal teachings of the Buddha, who वर्णित it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening.
It is used to develop insight into the सच्चा प्रकृति of phenomena ( or reality ) and to eradicate greed, hatred, and delusion.
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the पहला तत्व of the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold Path is, in turn, an understanding of the Four Noble Truths.
It is also known as the Middle पाथ or मध्य Way.
All eight elements of the Path begin with the word `` right '', which translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in pāli ).
These denote completion, togetherness, and coherence, and can also suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal ''.
'Samma ' is also translated as `` wholesome '', `` हिकमत '' और `` skillful ''.
In Buddhist symbolism, the Noble Eightfold Path is often represented by means of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ), whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path.
the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये सोंग of the साल is an सम्मान प्रस्तुत at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards.
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to `` honor artistic achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग, बगैर लिहाज़ to एल्बम बिक्री or चार्ट position. ''
Economics is the social science that analyzes the production, वितरण, और खपत of goods and services.
The term economics आता इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी ( ', `` management of a household, administration '' ) from ( ', `` house '' ) + ( ', `` custom '' or `` law '' ), hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) ''.
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject, but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` economic science '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation और as समान in रूप to `` गणित ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the subject is how आर्थिक एजेंटों behave or interact and how economies work.
Consistent with this, a primary textbook distinction is between microeconomics और macroeconomics.
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic elements in the economy, सहित व्यक्तिगत एजेंटों ( ऐसे as households and firms or as buyers and sellers ) and markets, and their interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the संपूर्ण अर्थव्यवस्था and issues affecting it, including unemployment, inflation, economic growth, and monetary and fiscal policy.
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` कया is '' ) और normative अर्थशास्त्र ( वकालत `` कया ought to be '' ) ; between आर्थिक सिद्धान्त और लागू अर्थशास्त्र ; between तर्कसंगत और behavioral अर्थशास्त्र ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ).
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society, as in business, finance, स्वास्थ्य परवाह, और सरकारी, लकिन भी to ऐसे विविध विषय as अपराधों, education, the family, law, politics, religion, social institutions, war, and science.
At the turn of the 21st century, the expanding डोमेन of अर्थशास्त्र in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.
An increasing number of अर्थशास्त्रियों have पुकारा लिये increased जोर on environmental sustainability ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics.
इस is a सूची of अनुसूची iv दवाएँ अंतर्गत the Controlled Substances Act for the United States.
Required निष्कर्षों लिये drugs to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in schedule III.
The drug or other substance has a फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा use in treatment in the United States.
Abuse of the drug or other substance may सीसे to सीमित शारीरिक dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.
The पूरा सूची of अनुसूची IV drugs are as follows.
The Administrative नियंत्रित substances कोड Number for each drug is included.
US काउंटी household median income 2009.
Median US household income, 2001-2011
Household income is a माप commonly used by the United States government and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the आय of प्रत्येक निवासी over the age of 15.
Income includes wages और salaries, बेरोजगारी बीमे, विकलांगता भुगतान, चाइल्ड support payments received, regular rental receipts, as well as any personal business, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
जबकि inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
U.S. median household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, अर्थ households जीना on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन before government benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the उपयोग of household आय remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories, और may रेंडर direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
The बीतने रेट is पारिभाषित as the रेट of decrease with height for an atmospheric variable.
The variable involved is तापमान जबतक निर्दिष्ट वरना.
The terminology arises from the word बीतने in the भाव of a decrease or decline.
While सबसे प्रायः लागू to धरती 's माहौल the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball of gas.
Blue Mountain State is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी श्रेणी कि premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
The series producers शामिल क्रिस romano और eric falconer, and it is produced by Lionsgate Television.
The series is about a fictional university, Blue Mountain State, and its football team, `` The पहाड़ Goats. ''
It portrays certain aspects of American university life, including फ़ुटबॉल, sex, binge drinking, drugs, wild partying, and hazing.
in फ़रवरी 2012, it थी reported that Blue Mountain State would not be renewed for a fourth season.
In March 2013, Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on a ब्लू पहाड़ State film.
Apple Inc., formerly Apple Computer, inc., is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino, California that designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software and personal computers.
Its best-known हार्डवेयर products are the Mac line of computers, the iPod music player, the iPhone smartphone, and the iPad tablet computer.
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating systems, the iTunes media browser, the Safari web browser, and the iLife और iwork रचनात्मकता और उत्पादन suites.
The company was founded on April 1, 1976, और incorporated as Apple Computer, Inc. on January 3, 1977.
The word `` Computer '' was removed from its name on January 9, 2007, reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स after the introduction of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics, and the world 's third-largest mobile phone maker after samsung और Nokia.
Fortune magazine named ठहराना the सबसे admired कम्पनी in the United States in 2008, and in the world from 2008 to 2012.
However, the company has received criticism for its contractors ' labor practices, and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices.
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in fourteen countries as well as the ऑनलाइन ठहराना Store and iTunes Store.
It is the second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization, with an estimated value of us $ 414 अरब as of जनवरी 2013.
, the company had 72,800 permanent full-time कर्मचारी और 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide.
Its worldwide annual revenue in 2012 totalled $ 156 billion.
Section 8 housing in the दक्षिण bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ), often simply known as Section 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the payment of rental housing assistance to private landlords on निमित्त of लगभग 3.1 लाख low-income households.
It operates through several programs, the largest of जिससे, the आवास Choice Voucher program, pays a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households.
The US Department of Housing and Urban विकास manages the Section 8 programs.
The Housing Choice वाउचर कार्यक्रम provides `` tenant-based '' rental assistance, so a tenant can move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another.
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the खरीदें of a घर, साथ over $ 17 अरब going towards ऐसे purchases प्रत्येक साल ( इससे ncsha.org analysis ).
the अधिकतम allowed voucher is $ 2200 a month.
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs, under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a भवन लिये low-income किरायेदारों, in वापसी लिये a संघीय सरकारी guarantee to make up the difference between the tenant 's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government.
A tenant who पत्ते a subsidized project will lose access to the project-based subsidy.
The United States Department of आवास और शहरी विकास और संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of दिग्गजों अफेयर्स have a special Section 8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ), or HUD-VASH, which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans.
Restaurants categorized by प्रकार और सूचना about these different types.
U.S. संघीय आरक्षित notes in the mid-1990s
The history of the संयुक्त राज्य डालर covers more than 200 years.
