A partly submerged glacier cave on Perito मोरेनो Glacier.
The ice मुखाग्र is लगभग 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis हिमानी cave
A glacier cave is a cave formed भीतर the ice of a glacier.
Glacier caves are often called ice caves, but this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice.
In physics, circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a circle or rotation along a गोलाकार पाथ.
It can be uniform, with constant कोणीय रेट of रोटेशन ( and constant speed ), or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation.
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional देह involves गोलाकार गति of its parts.
The equations of motion describe the गति of the center of mass of a body.
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height, a स्टोन which is tied to a rope and is being swung in circles, a car turning through a curve in a race track, an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field, and a gear turning inside a mechanism.
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction, the चलती ऑब्जेक्ट is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation.
Without this acceleration, the object would move in a straight line, according to न्यूटन 's laws of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World.
He was निभाई by Carl Weathers.
Creed had multiple nicknames, सहित the निपुण of विपत्ति, the किंग of Sting, The Dancing Destroyer, The Prince of Punch, The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto.
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed, a statement of belief used in Christian churches.
All of अपोलो 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े were scheduled for the 15 round distance.
चैंपियनशिप झगड़े did not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
रॉकी बाल्बोआ is प्रायः wrongly credited साथ popularizing the रेड, श्वेत, और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ थी the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd और 4th किश्तों और आखिरकार by टॉमी `` the यंत्र '' gunn ( टॉमी मॉरिसन ) in the 5th किश्त ) हालांकि सामान्यतः he पहना रेड और श्वेत, as देखी in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature colors were black and gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in the नवीनतम movie.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) साथ appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and district न्यायाधीशों of the United States district courts.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the u.S. संविधान.
In addition, judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, और उनके power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I and Article iii अधिकरणों.
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy.
Production began in लेट 1984, solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek, Maryland.
It is a further development of the beretta मॉडल 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a प्रकार of जीवन बीमे कि builds a cash value.
In a VUL, the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts, similar to mutual funds, and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond बाज़ार.
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium भुगतान.
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code लिये life insurance.
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments कि typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a प्रकार of स्थाई जीवन बीमे, because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy.
With most if not all VULs, unlike whole life, there is no endowment age ( the age at जिससे the cash value equals the death benefit amount, which for whole life is typically 100 ).
This is yet another key advantage of vul over Whole Life.
With a typical whole life policy, the death benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the policy, and at endowment age, the face amount is सब कि is सशुल्क out.
Thus with either death or endowment, the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years.
However, कुछ participating पूरे जीवन नीतियों प्रस्ताव राइडर्स जिससे बताएँ कि कोई dividends सशुल्क on the नीति be प्रयुक्त to खरीदें `` सशुल्क up परिवर्धन '' to the नीति जिससे बढ़ाएँ दोनो the नकदी मान और the मौत लाभ over समय.
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance कम्पनी, a उच्चतर rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment age, continually increasing death benefit, and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy, this could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole जीवन नीति साथ the वही amounts of धन सशुल्क in as premiums.
The outdoor wood boiler is a रूपांतर of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings.
A mound of Girl Scout cookies.
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its major fundraisers for local Scout units.
Members of the GSUSA have been selling cookies since 1917 to उठाएँ निधि.
लड़कियों जो participate can earn prizes for their efforts.
There are also unit प्रोत्साहन if the unit as a whole does well.
As of 2007, sales were estimated at परिचय 200 लाख boxes per year.
University हॉल
Purdue University, located in West Lafayette, Indiana, is the फ्लैगशिप university of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university जब the इंडियाना सामान्य Assembly, taking advantage of the Morrill Act, accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name.
The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, साथ छह instructors and 39 students.
Today, Purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference, and is a well known world-class research institution.
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of any university in the United States.
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 major areas of study, और is खूब ज्ञात for its competitive engineering curricula.
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation, having established the first college credit offered in flight training, the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation, and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the world.
In the mid-20th सदी, purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts, including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ), Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ), और यूजीन cernan ( the सबसे हाल व्यक्ति to चलना on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( भी ज्ञात as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid गाँठ originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles, by definition, neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, white, semi-solid material in both of these गाँठ entities is नहीं sebum, लकिन keratin.
Furthermore, under the microscope neither entity contains sebaceous glands.
In practice, however, the terms are often प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Modern pointe shoes.
The edge of the toe pad, which is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning, can be seen on the सही पैर.
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing pointe कार्य.
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to नृत्य en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella, Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream, or men performing as महिलाओं in नृत्य कंपनियाँ ऐसे as लेस नाटिकाओं trockadero और grandiva.
They are manufactured in a variety of colors, most commonly in shades of लाइट गुलाबी.
This tablespoon has a capacity of about 15 mL.
Measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl.
In the uk, यूरोपीय और most Commonwealth countries, a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a सेवारत spoon, the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the capacity of one tablespoon, is commonly used as a measure of volume in कुकिंग.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The क्षमता of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation.
In the USA one tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is लगभग 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL.
In Australia एक tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels written by the अंग्रेजों लेखक J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard, Harry कुम्हार, और उसके मित्रों Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
the प्रमुख स्टोरी चाप चिंताएं हैरी 's क्वेस्ट to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort, whose aims are to become immortal, conquer the wizarding world, subjugate non-magical people, and destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter.
Since the release of the first novel Harry कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन on 30 June 1997, the books have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide.
The series has also had some share of criticism, including concern for the increasingly अंधेरा tone.
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies, बनाना it the best-selling book series in history, and has been translated into 67 languages.
The last four किताबे consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history.
A series of many genres, including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery, थ्रिलर, एडवेंचर, और romance ), it has many cultural meanings and references.
According to रोलिंग, the main theme is death.
वहीँ हैं भी many other themes in the series, such as prejudice and corruption.
The initial major publishers of the books were bloomsbury in the संयुक्त Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States.
The books have since been published by many publishers worldwide.
The books, with the seventh book split into two parts, have महरूम made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time.
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise, making the Harry Potter ब्रांड लायक in excess of $ 15 billion.
Also due to the success of the books and films, Harry कुम्हार रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये a थीम पार्क, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure.
RS-68 होने tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust being ज़्यादातर अतितप्त steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C rocket इंजन
A rocket engine, or बस `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '', is a जेट इंजन कि उपयोग only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet.
Rocket engines are प्रतिक्रिया engines and obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law.
Since they need no बाह्य सामग्री to रूप their jet, rocket engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses, such as missiles.
Most rocket engines are internal combustion engines, although non-combusting फ़ॉर्म भी मौजूद.
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities, are by far the lightest, but are the least propellant कुशल of सब types of jet engines.
``... baby एक अधिक समय '' is a सोंग by American recording artist Britney Spears.
It served as Spears 's debut सिंगल and title track from her debut studio album,... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami, ``... Baby One अधिक समय '' थी released on सितंबर 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton, Spears signed a multi-album सौदे साथ Jive.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop song that refers to a girl who regrets तोड़कर up साथ her boyfriend.
The song received generally favorable समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, जो praised its composition.
``... Baby One More Time '' attained global success, reaching number one in every country it charted.
It also received numerous certifications around the world, and is one of the best-selling singles of सब समय, साथ over 10 लाख नक़ल sold.
An accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो, निर्देशित by निगेल लंड, portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक ऊँची स्कूल, जो starts to daydream कि वो is गायन और नाचना around the स्कूल, जबकि watching उसके प्रेम ब्याज इससे अफ़ार.
The music video was later referenced in the music वीडियो of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the music video for ``... Baby One अधिक समय '' थी voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll held by Jam !.
Spears has performed ``... Baby One अधिक समय '' in a number of live appearances and in all of her concert tours.
It was the encore of the... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed संस्करण of the song during the Oops !...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ), The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ), The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ), and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award लिये बेहतरीन मादा Pop Vocal Performance, and has been included in lists by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s म्यूज़िक.
Spears has named ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' as one of her favorite songs from her career.
It was also the final song to be played on the बीबीसी 's म्यूज़िक कार्यक्रम Top of the Pops.
हैजा is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The main symptoms are watery diarrhea and vomiting.
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste product ) of an infected person, including one with no apparent symptoms.
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte असंतुलन, और death in some cases.
the प्राथमिक उपचार is मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण therapy, typically with oral rehydration solution, to replace water and electrolytes.
if इस is नहीं tolerated or does not provide improvement fast enough, intravenous fluids can also be used.
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe बीमारी to shorten its duration and severity.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 million people and कल्याणकारी 100,000–130,000 deaths a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods.
The Picture of Dorian धूसर is the तभी प्रकाशित novel by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the lead story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as सुपुर्द, so they censored roughly 500 words, without Wilde 's knowledge, before publication.
But even with that, the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers, some of whom सुझाया कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story for book publication, making substantial alterations, deleting controversial passages, adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right.
The amended version थी published by Ward, Lock and Company in April 1891.
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian धूसर, the विषय of a painting by artist Basil Hallward.
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him, believing his beauty is responsible for a new mode in his art.
Dorian meets Lord हेनरी wotton, a friend of Basil 's, and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view.
Espousing a new hedonism, Lord Henry suggests the only things worth pursuing in life are beauty और fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade, Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery, the पोर्ट्रेट serves as a स्मरण of the effect each act has upon his soul, with each sin displayed as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is माना a कार्य of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ), is a Hungarian -born American अभिनेत्री जो acted in supporting भूमिकाएँ in फिल्मों, on Broadway, and occasionally on television.
Gabor was also a socialite.
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15, and was पहनाया मिस हंगेरियाई in 1936.
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with `` European flair and स्टाइल '', साथ a व्यक्तित्व that `` exuded charm and grace ''.
Her first movie role was as supporting actress in प्यारे to Look At.
She later acted in We 're Not Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ), directed by John Huston, who described her as a `` विश्वसनीय '' actress.
Besides her film and television appearances, she is best known for having nine husbands, including hotel महारथी कोनराड हिल्टन और कर्ता जार्ज Sanders.
वो एकबार stated, `` मेन have सदा liked me और i have सदा liked मेन.
But I like a mannish man, a man who knows how to talk to and treat a woman – not just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial कलाकार, कर्ता, martial arts instructor, philosopher, and filmmaker.
The founder of Jeet kune do, ली was the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by commentators, critics, media and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists of सब समय, और a pop culture icon of the 20th century.
He is often credited with helping to change the रास्ता एशियाइ यहूद प्रस्तुत in अमरीकी films.
Lee was born in चाइनाटाउन, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens.
He was introduced to the film उद्योग by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher education, and it was during this time that he began शिक्षण martial कला.
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new level of popularity and acclaim, sparking a surge of ब्याज in चाइनीज martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world.
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : lo वेई 's the बिग boss ( 1971 ) और Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ), directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ), both directed by Robert Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world, विशेषकर among the चाइनीज, as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films.
He initially trained in Wing Chun, but later rejected well-defined martial art styles, favouring instead the use of तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत, in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ).
Lee आयोजित dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States.
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 जुलाई 1973 at age 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ), chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ), chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory बीमारी ( CORD ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time.
This limits airflow to and from the lungs, causing shortness of साँस ( dyspnea ).
In clinical practice, COPD is defined by its characteristically low airflow on फेफड़ों फलन परीक्षण.
In contrast to asthma, this limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over समय.
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas, most commonly from tobacco smoking, which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung.
The diagnosis of COPD requires lung function परीक्षण.
Important management रणनीति हैं धूम्रपान cessation, vaccinations, rehabilitation, and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen चिकित्सा or फेफड़ों प्रत्यारोपण.
Worldwide, COPD क्रमित as the sixth leading cause of death in 1990.
It is प्रक्षिप्त to become the चौथी अग्रणी cause of death worldwide by 2030, due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries.
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S., and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity.
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank (, ?, ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is एक of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust.
उसके डायरी has been the basis for several plays and films.
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany, वो जिया सबसे of उसके जीवन in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
Born a German नेशनल, Frank lost her citizenship in 1941.
She gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय कीर्ति posthumously after her diary was published.
It documents her experiences hiding during the German occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स in संसार War II.
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933, the year the Nazis gained control over Germany.
By the beginning of 1940, they were trapped in Amsterdam by the नाजी occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी increased in July 1942, the family went into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father, Otto Frank 's, office building.
After two years, the समूह was betrayed and transported to concentration camps.
Anne Frank and her sister, Margot, were eventually transferred to the bergen-belsen विशेषज्ञता camp, where they died of typhus in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only survivor of the family, returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved, and his efforts led to इसके प्रकाशन in 1947.
It was translated from its original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as the डायरी of a Young Girl.
It has since been अनूदित into many languages.
The diary, which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday, क्रॉनिकल्स उसके जीवन इससे 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.
कर्ट 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, best known as the lead सिंगर, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene, having its डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing साथ प्रमुख लेबल dgc रिकॉर्ड, the बैंड found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and कोबेन hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his निजी मुद्दे प्रायः subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final स्टुडियो एल्बम In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last सालो of उसके जीवन, Cobain struggled with heroin addiction, illness and depression.
He भी था परेशानी coping साथ उसके कीर्ति और public image, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain थी मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in Seattle, the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
the हालातों of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
चूंकि उनके डेब्यू, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
रेडियल इंजन समय और कैम यांत्रिकी.
Click for full रेज़ोल्यूशन एनिमेशन.
Radial engine of a बाईप्लेन
Master rod ( upright ), slaves and balances from a two-row, fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type आतंरिक combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized स्टार जब viewed from the front, and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages.
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines before टर्बाइन engines became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom, created by Susan Harris, that originally aired on NBC from September 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
Starring Bea Arthur, Betty White, Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty, the show centers on four older women sharing a home in मियामी, फ्लोरिडा.
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions, in association with Touchstone टेलीविज़न, और पॉल junger witt, टोनी Thomas, and Harris served as the original executive producers.
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won अनेक पुरस्कार, सहित the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best टेलीविज़न श्रेणी – Musical or Comedy.
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run and had अनेक nominations.
The series also क्रमित among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of its seven seasons.
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas खोजी और उत्पादन in गहराइयों of more than 500 feet.
By this परिभाषा, वहीँ हैं लगभग 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
It has been economically infeasible for many years, but with rising oil prices, more companies हैं निवेश in this area.
Major companies working in this sector include Diamond Offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships.
Drilling can भी be performed इससे a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
हाल उद्योग विश्लेषण रै अनुमानित that the total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not all oil is accessible on जमीन or in उथले जल.
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... Using sonic equipment, oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil.
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the आरंभिक खूब.
Some units are converted into उत्पादन rigs, meaning they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the time, the oil company will replace the MODU साथ a अधिक स्थाई आयल उत्पादन rig to capture oil.”... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits.
The part of the drill that extends below the deck and through the जल is पुकारा the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor and the rig.
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the आयल जमा -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater खुदाई is happening despite accidents in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was खुदाई in गहन waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater खुदाई ट्रेंड is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling, analyst say, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater खुदाई in अनुक्रम for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives.
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production होता विस्तार इससे its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day, still nearly a quarter of total domestic production, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the environment in दोनो negative and positive ways.
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is स्टिल a hazardous possible outcome.
Oil spills परिणाम in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive.
On the other हाथ deepwater drilling effects the environment in a positive ways too.
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on और around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in.
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that are in there natural habitat, giving scientist a look at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the श्वेत हाउस in 1995 और 1996.
the affair और इसके परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became ज्ञात as the lewinsky कांड.
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra,, ( December 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) was an American सिंगर और फिल्मी कर्ता.
Beginning his musical career in the झूले era साथ हैरी जेम्स और टॉमी Dorsey, Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released his first album, The आवाज़ of फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा in 1946.
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s, but it was पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded एल्बम ( ऐसे as in the मूत छोटी Hours, Songs for Swingin ' Lovers !, Come Fly with Me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums ऐसे as ring-a-ding-ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ), toured internationally, was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen, including John F. Kennedy.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective सितंबर of My Years, starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music, and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way ``.
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films, Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971.
Two years later, however, he came out of retirement and in 1973 recorded several albums, scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York, नई यॉर्क `` in 1980.
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base, he toured both within the United States and internationally, until a short time before his death in 1998.
Sinatra also forged a highly successful career as a फिल्मी actor.
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953, he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The Man with the Golden Arm, and critical acclaim for his प्रदर्शन in The Manchurian Candidate.
He भी स्ट्रक्चर in ऐसे musicals as High Society, Pal Joey, Guys and Dolls and On the Town.
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the अध्यक्षीय Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards, including the ग्रैमी trustees पुरस्कार, ग्रैमी Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling artists of all time, having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide.
Typical cornhole board
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, corn toss, baggo or bags, is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end.
A bag in the छेद स्कोर 3 points, while one on the platform scores 1 point.
Play continues until a team or खिलाड़ी पहुँच the score of 21.
The American Gold Eagle is an official सुनहरा bullion सिक्का of the United States.
प्राधिकृत under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985, it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha योग तकनीकों और popularized beginning in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 मिनट्स और consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°c ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor, comedian और rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101.
Massey has received many awards and नामांकन सहित a यंग Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations.
He is also known for appearing in अनेक commercials in the early 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon बना of stainless steel.
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument, as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs.
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, they have xylem और फ्लोएम ( बनाना them vascular plants ).
They have stems, leaves, और जड़ें जैसे अन्य vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं और have neither seeds nor flowers.
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, और ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ).
Ferns first appear in the चट्टान रिकार्ड 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are not of major economic importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as ornamental plants, for remediating contaminated soils, and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air.
Some हैं significant weeds.
They also play a भूमिका in mythology, medicine, and art.
Flat roofs in Israel
Flat छत in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering लिये a भवन.
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof, a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly ज्ञात as इसके पिच : roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of material used to cover a चपटा or low-pitched छत is प्रायः ज्ञात as a membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to चलाएं बंद इससे a पतला inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water इससे कुछ चपटा roofs ऐसे as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof, though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the ground, or better, into a विशेषकर made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of कोई निर्मित up area.
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, usually for aesthetic purposes, or for rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each area has its अपना परंपरा or वरीयता लिये materials used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur, many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is good at keeping out the heat of the सूर्य और सस्ती और आसान to निर्माण जहाँ timber is नहीं readily available.
In areas where the roof could become saturated by बरसात और लीक, or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable.
traditionally सबसे flat roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat, UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering and degradation.
Roof अलंकार is प्रायः of प्लाईवुड, chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board, also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar coating is लागू in एक or अधिक coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar kettle, or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the तारकोल or tarpaper waterproofing, यूँ exposing it to मौसम और सूर्य whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise खड़ा इससे the छत ऐसे as on मुंडेर दीवारें or upstands, tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the कारीगरी और प्रशिक्षण of those applying it to produce more or less successful results.
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over हाल सालो to make them more and more affordable.
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability.
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time दौरान जिससे जल penetrates और soaks the अलंकार and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to expensive damage from the दुर्गन्ध जिससे प्रायः develops और if बाएँ can weaken the roof structure.
There are भी विभिन्न स्वास्थ्य risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point.
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water करता घुस the अवरोध covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen.
Thus it is not easy to देखिए जहाँ it is leaking in order to repair it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact डिस्क which contains data.
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory ``.
कंप्यूटर can read CD-ROMs, but can not write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software, including video games and multimedia applications, हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can be भंडारित ( up to the क्षमता limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data और ऑडियो साथ the latter capable of being played on a CD player, while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये all CD formats, the Yellow Book, created by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to hold कोई रूप of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), pen name J. K. Rowling, is a अंग्रेजों उपन्यासकार, best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series.
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention, won multiple awards, and sold more than 400 लाख नक़ल.
They have become the best-selling book series in history, and been the basis for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history.
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining रचनात्मक कंट्रोल by सेवारत as a producer on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual सचिव लिये माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother, divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the पारस 's स्टोन ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last, Harry कुम्हार और the deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy अनोखा aimed at वयस्क readership, हकदार the कैज़ुअल Vacancy.
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for adults, the other for children younger than the Harry Potter audience, and she expects the latter to be प्रकाशित पहला.
Rowling has led a `` rags to अमीरी `` life story, in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years.
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling author since records began, with sales in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated रोलिंग 's सौभाग्य at £560 million ( $ 798 million ), ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom.
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007, and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up लिये इसके 2007 Person of the Year, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fans.
In October 2010, Rowling was named the `` Most influential स्त्री in Britain '' by leading magazine editors.
She रै become a notable लोकसेवक, supporting ऐसे धर्मार्थ as Comic Relief, One Parent Families, Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ).
Auburndale is a city in Polk County, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त States.
The population was 11,032 at the 2000 census.
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the city had a population of 12,381.
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven महानगर Statistical Area.
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as देखी इससे कक्षा दौरान Expedition 7 of the International Space Station.
The eye, eyewall, and surrounding rainbands, characteristics of tropical cyclones, हैं clearly visible in this view from space.
A tropical cyclone is a तूफ़ान प्रणाली characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain.
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water काफूर इससे the समंदर is released as the saturated air rises, resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, European windstorms, and polar lows.
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at कोई ऊँचाई in the atmosphere, the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems.
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems, which usually form in tropical regions of the globe, and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature, with counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the उत्तरी Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere.
The opposite direction of the wind flow is a परिणाम of the Coriolis force.
Depending on its location and strength, a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), तूफ़ान ( ), tropical storm, cyclonic storm, tropical depression, and simply cyclone.
While tropical cyclones can उपज अत्यधिक powerful winds and torrential rain, they are also able to produce high waves, damaging storm surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over large लाशें of गरम जल, और lose their strength if they move over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source.
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone, while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant flooding inland, and तूफ़ान surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to from the coastline.
Although their effects on इंसान populations can be devastating, tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes, जिससे makes them an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism.
As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere, and to maintain a अपेक्षाकृत stable and warm temperature worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop जब the वायुमंडलीय conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable.
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian दोलन, el niño-southern Oscillation, and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation.
Others form when other types of cyclones acquire tropical विशेषताएँ.
तीव्र प्रणालियों हैं तब moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the तीव्र cyclone makes landfall, the system weakens and eventually dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with current technology.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur danielovitch, ; दिसम्बर 9, 1916 ) is an American stage and film actor, film producer and author.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), चैंपियन ( 1949 ), इक्का in the छेद ( 1951 ), the ख़राब और the खूबसूरत ( 1952 ), 20,000 लीग अंतर्गत the समुद्र ( 1954 ), हवस लिये Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral ( 1957 ), The Vikings ( 1958 ), Spartacus ( 1960 ), Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ), Seven Days in May ( 1964 ), The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ).
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male अमरीकी स्क्रीन legends of all time, making him the highest-ranked living person on the list.
In 1996, he प्राप्त the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community. ''
He is one of the last surviving actors इससे हॉलीवुड 's `` golden age ''.
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6, 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist, he performed और अंकित as bob Seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and जारी to strive for broader success with other various bands.
In 1973, he put together The Silver Bullet Band, a group of Detroit-area musicians, with whom he became most successful on the national level with the album सजीव गोली, अंकित सजीव साथ the चांदी गोली बैंड in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he achieved a national ब्रेकआउट साथ the स्टुडियो album Night Moves.
On his studio albums, he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section, which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots rocker with a classic raspy, shouting voice, Seger wrote and अंकित songs that dealt with love, women, blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has recorded many hits, including `` रात्रि चालें, '' `` फेरे the पेज, '' `` We 've Got Tonight, '' `` Against the Wind, '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock, '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
His iconic recording of `` बूढ़ा समय चट्टान and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001.
With a career spanning five दशकों, seger continues to perform and record today.
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 और the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon थी born in Yorba Linda, California.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to अभ्यास law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, moved to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently served in the संयुक्त राज्य Navy during World War II.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the सीनेट in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated उसे to national prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served for आठ सालो as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, and lost a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again for the प्रेसिडेंसी और was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty साथ the सोवियत संघ the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस खोजी.
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by सदस्यों of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग और हटाना from office.
After his इस्तीफा, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring several books and undertaking many foreign यात्राएँ, helped to rehabilitate उसके पब्लिक image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, और died four days later at the age of 81.
{ { Infobox Senator
The डोमिनिकन Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner.
ब्रैडी 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti, became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty, and that men close to the president shared in the corruption.
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Sumner initially withheld उसके opinion on the treaty on January 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information इससे सहायक सचिव of State, Bancroft Davis, that U.S. Naval ships were being used to protect President Báez.
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s suggestion and quite possibly to सहेजें the पार्टी इससे an भद्दा fight or the president from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session.
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in favor of annexation on कूच 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
In closed session, Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals, noting the दीर्घकालिक विद्रोह कि took प्लेस on the द्वीप, और the risk that the independence of Haiti, recognized by the United States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a protectorate was a उल्लंघन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय law and unconstitutional.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the treaty थी voted on by the सीनेट और विफल to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage.
The following day, President Grant, feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley, Ambassador to Britain.
By autumn, Sumner 's निजी दुश्मनी to the president was public knowledge, and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
The two men, friends until तब, cooled into bitter enemies.
In December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation और babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, समर्थित by उसके सचिव of राज्य हैमिल्टन मछली, था initiated a campaign to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act, blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury, and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction नीतियों तेज़ than ग्रान्ट had been willing to go.
ग्रान्ट resented Sumner 's superiority of manner, as well.
Told once that sumner did not believe in the Bible, the president is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it. ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, Sumner’s health began to decline.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4, 1871, सीनेटरों संबद्ध साथ अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, known as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate आचार ) is a रूप of लागू आचार or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment.
It applies to सब पहलुओं of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations.
Business ethics has both normative and descriptive आयाम.
As a corporate practice and a career specialization, the फ़ील्ड is primarily normative.
लड attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods.
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the बातचीत of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
Interest in कारोबार आचार त्वरित dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia.
For example, today most major corporations प्रचार उनके प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic मान अंतर्गत headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.
Adam Smith said, `` People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, लकिन the वार्तालाप ends in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices. ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control.
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the विकास of औपचारिक ethics regimes.
A बर्न is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat, electricity, chemicals, friction, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full मोटाई of the स्किन ( ज्ञात as आंशिक मोटाई or second degree ).
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues, such as muscle or अस्थि can be घायल in which case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree.
The treatment required depends on the severity of the burn.
Superficial burns संभवतः प्रबंधित साथ छोटी more than simple pain killers while major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers.
कूलिंग साथ tap जल may सहायता पीड़ा और घटी क्षति however if एक्सपोज़र is prolonged it may परिणाम in कम देह तापमान.
Partial thickness burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई with soap and water followed by dressings.
Blisters चाहिए typically be left unbroken.
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments such as skin grafting and extensive burns प्रायः आवश्यकता विशाल राशि of intravenous fluids.
The most common complications of burns हैं सम्बन्धित to infection.
While large burns can be fatal, आधुनिक treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and young adults.
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die इससे burns.
In the United States, of those admitted to a burn center, approximately 4 % die from their चोटों.
The long term outcome is primarily related to the size of burn and the age of the person effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, not including Arctic and अंटार्कटिक regions
This video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS.
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa, over South Sudan.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic विभाजन.
With a total area of about, it covers लगभग 20 percent of the Earth 's surface and about 29 percent of its water surface area.
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology, बनाना the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas ''.
The oldest known जिक्र of `` अटलांटिक '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ).
The term Ethiopic Ocean, derived from Ethiopia, थी लागू to the दक्षिणी अटलांटिक as late as the mid-19th century.
पहले europeans खोजा अन्य महासागर, the पद `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic.
The early Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east, and the Americas to the west.
As one component of the interconnected वैश्विक समंदर, it is कनेक्ट in the उत्तर to the आर्कटिक समंदर ( जिससे is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( Other definitions describe the अटलांटिक as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean.
Due to their long-term persistence, and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and चेतावनियाँ, तीव्र cyclones and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
The following हैं सूचियाँ from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are derived.
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम कि is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
Electromagnetic विकिरण in this range of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light.
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of frequency, this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ), in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ).
The spectrum does not, however, contain सब the रंगों कि the human eyes and brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or purple variations such as magenta, हैं absent, for example, because they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths.
Colors containing only one wavelength हैं भी called pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window ``, the region of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An example of इस घटना is कि साफ एयर scatters blue light more than red wavelengths, and so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is also called the visible window क्युकी it overlaps the human visible response spectrum.
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies बस आउट of the इंसान दृष्टि, as खूब as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them.
Many species can see light with frequencies outside the `` दृश्य वर्णक्रम, '' which is defined in terms of human vision.
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet लाइट, जिससे helps them find nectar in flowers.
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their रूप in पराबैंगनी light, rather than how colorful they appear to humans.
Birds, too, can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ), और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range, however, can not see red लाइट or कोई अन्य reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm, just before the orange wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can देखिए कुछ red wavelengths, but not as many as humans.
Zebras ( or ) are several species of अफ़्रीकी equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes.
Their stripes come in different patterns, unique to प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत.
They are generally social animals that live in small harems to large herds.
Unlike their closest रिश्तेदारों, घोड़े and asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
There are three species of zebras : the plains zebra, the grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra.
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris, but grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an ass, to which it is closely related, while the former two are more horse-like.
All three belong to the genus Equus, साथ साथ अन्य जीना equids.
The अद्वितीय stripes of zebras make them one of the animals most familiar to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, woodlands, thorny scrublands, mountains, and coastal hills.
However, various anthropogenic कारकों have था a कठोर impact on zebra populations, in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction.
Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra are endangered.
While plains zebras are much more plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – हालांकि वहीँ is फिलहाल a योजना, पुकारा the Quagga Project, that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back.
Barry श्वेत, born Barry Eugene Carter ( – ), was an American composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image, White 's महानतम कामयाबी आए in the 1970s as a सोलो singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra, crafting many enduring soul, funk, and disco songs such as his two biggest hits, `` You 're the First, the Last, My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with Isaac Hayes, White is considered by allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s.
During the course of his career in the music business, White achieved 106 gold एल्बम विश्वव्यापी, 41 of which also attained platinum status.
श्वेत had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million, according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan.
His influences included Rev. James Cleveland, Ray Charles, एरीथा फ्रैंकलिन प्लस Motown artists The Supremes, The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye.
Angelina Jolie (, born एंजेलीना जोली वोइट ; जून 4, 1975 ) is an American actress, film director, and screenwriter.
She has received an Academy Award, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, and three Golden Globe Awards, and was named हॉलीवुड 's highest-paid अभिनेत्री by Forbes in 2009 and 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes, and is noted for her work साथ refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman, a title for which she has प्राप्त substantial media attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ), but उसके फिल्मी करियर began in सच्चाई a दशक बाद साथ the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first leading role in a प्रमुख फिल्मी थी in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical टेलीविज़न films जार्ज Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ), and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl, Interrupted ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ), and स्थापित herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She continued her action star career साथ mr. & mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ), which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress.
Jolie made उसके directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton, Jolie now lives with कर्ता ब्रैड Pitt, in a relationship notable for fervent media attention.
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children और तीन अपनाया children.
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, जॉर्डन
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the धरती 's सतह by exogenetic प्रक्रियाओं such as wind or water flow, and then transported and deposited in other locations.
While erosion is a natural process, human activities have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स the रेट at जिससे erosion is occurring globally.
Excessive erosion causes समस्याएं ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण, decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation, sedimentation of waterways, and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined, they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion one of the सबसे significant वैश्विक पर्यावरणीय problems.
Industrial agriculture, deforestation, सड़कें, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion.
However, there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion, such as terrace -building, no-till कृषि, और revegetation of denuded soils.
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV इससे दिसम्बर 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United States.
The series follows the lives of eight housemates बिता उनके summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the डाल escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach, with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
the चौथी season, filmed in Italy, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The show returned for a fifth season, at Seaside Heights on January 5, 2012.
The fifth season finale aired on March 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the series would return for their sixth season.
On August 30, 2012, MTV announced that the series will end after the छठे ऋतु, which premiered on October 4.
the श्रेणी finale aired on December 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette, '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes, and scrutiny इससे स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों यहूद नहीं निवासियों of the area.
The series garnered record ratings for MTV, making it the network 's most viewed श्रेणी telecast ever.
The series ' cast have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon और phrases into American popular culture.
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions कि have था वर्ग or सम्मेलनों about the show.
In 2010, the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara walters ' 10 सबसे fascinating लोगों list, and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in other countries, with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore, नियत in न्यूकैसल upon tyne, इंग्लैण्ड.
The अन्य is the घाटियों, the Welsh equivalent, which is filmed and set in Cardiff.
The only other official remake of the show is Gandía Shore, set in Gandía, स्पेन.
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States, including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all u.s. नवल बरतन.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring, exploiting, conserving, and managing its territory.
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to, और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of, the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes.
The United States कुल territory includes a subset of political divisions.
The U.S. government is a government with delegated powers under the United राज्य Constitution.
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor निषिद्ध by it to the राज्य, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow और अभिनीत अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर, उपनाम stahl, क्लेयर danes and Kristanna Loken.
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to मार सारा connor पहले उसके बेटे is born और to kill John himself as a child, it sends back another Terminator, the T-X, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible.
इस शामिल John 's future wife, but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet.
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally पाता उसे.
A cord of लकडी
The cord is a ईकाई of माप of शुष्क आवाज़ प्रयुक्त in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of wood that, when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned, parallel, touching and compact ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high, long, and deep ; or any अन्य व्यवस्था of linear measurements that yields the same volume.
The name cord probably comes इससे the उपयोग of a cord or string to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit handheld video game device विकसित और manufactured by Nintendo.
It was released in Japan on, in North America in, and in यूरोपीय on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line, and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 और 1998, in the form of Game Boy Pocket, and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ), respectively.
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in, and it combined features from both the Nintendo entertainment प्रणाली और खेल & Watch.
It was originally bundled with the पहेली खेल टेट्रिस.
As भाग of the चौथी पीढी of gaming, the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
Despite ये अन्य technologically superior handheld consoles, the Game Boy was a tremendous success.
The Game Boy and its successor, the Game Boy रंग, have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide.
Upon its release in the United States, it sold its entire शिपमेंट of एक लाख units within weeks.
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower Manhattan, New York City, United States, replacing an earlier जटिल of सात buildings with the same name on the same site.
The original World व्यापार बीच featured landmark twin towers, which opened on April 4, 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001, along with 7 World Trade Center.
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks, and their ruins were आखिरकार demolished.
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers और a memorial to those killed in the attacks.
, तभी एक skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected to be completed before 2020.
One World Trade Center will be the lead भवन लिये the नई जटिल, reaching more than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30, 2012, और is अपेक्षित to be finished by 2013.
A sixth मीनार is प्रतीक्षारत confirmation.
At the time of their completion, the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the दक्षिण मीनार ), ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा Towers '', were the tallest buildings in the world.
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the मैरियट संसार व्यापार Center ), 4 WTC, 5 WTC, 6 WTC, and 7 WTC.
All of ये buildings were built between 1975 and 1985.
The cost for the construction was $ 400 लाख ( $ in dollars ).
The complex was located in the heart of New York City 's downtown financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of दफ्तर स्पेस.
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 और a robbery on, 1998.
In 1998, the Port प्राधिकार decided to privatize the World Trade Center, leasing the buildings to a private company to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex, one into each tower, in a coordinated terrorist attack.
बाद burning लिये 56 मिनट्स, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ), with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling debris from the towers, संयुक्त साथ फ़ायर कि the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area.
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World Trade Center site took आठ महीने.
Over the following सालो, plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form.
The first new building at the site was 7 World Trade Center, जिससे खोली in.
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ), established in to oversee the rebuilding process, organized competitions to चुनें a साईट योजना and memorial design.
Memory Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was selected as the master plan, लकिन इस went through substantial changes in design.
The new World Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center, three other high-rise दफ्तर मीनारें, और the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.
San जिबरील Mountains
सैन Bernardino Mountains, with Mt. San Gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern California, in the Pacific coast सीमाएँ physiographic region in North America.
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa बारबरा और सैन डिएगो counties.
They derive the name अनुप्रस्थ Ranges due to their East-West orientation, making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains.
आवधिक table with electron shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also पुकारा `` k शेल '' ), followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ), then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ), and so on farther and farther from the nucleus.
The shell अक्षर k, l, m,..., प्रयुक्त in the X-ray notation, are alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st शेल can थाम up to two electrons, the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the अधिक भीतरी शेल have already महरूम completely भर by other electrons.
However, this is नहीं a सख्त आवश्यकता : Atoms may have two or even three incomplete outer shells.
( देखिए Madelung rule for more details. )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in ये shells see electron configuration.
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell.
Each shell consists of one or more subshells, and प्रत्येक subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals.
Vickie Lynn मार्शल ( née Hogan ; November 28, 1967 – February 8, 2007 ), known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith, was an American model, actress, and television personality.
Smith first gained लोकप्रियता in Playboy, becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
She modeled लिये कपडे companies, including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped out of high school and was शादीशुदा in 1985.
Her highly publicized दूसरी विवाह to आयल business mogul, J. Howard Marshall, 62 years her senior, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money, which she denied.
following मार्शल 's मौत, स्मिथ began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of federal क्षेत्राधिकार, और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन अदालत authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a Hollywood, Florida hotel room as a परिणाम of an overdose of prescription drugs.
Within the final six months of her life, स्मिथ थी the फ़ोकस of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son, Daniel, and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of जापानी yen.
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new स्क्रिप्ट ``, और यहूद भी minted इससे 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much higher value of the yen, they were minted in gold ).
The front of the coin depicts a राइस संयंत्र growing आउट of the जल, with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of issue, also in kanji, separated by sprouts of a tree.
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries, the key तत्व of the Japanese first-sector economy.
Around a hole, वहीँ is a gear that represents industry.
It is the only जापानी सिक्का in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either face.
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B, hip hop, soul, funk, and new jack swing.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins, rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas, the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law, each other, and the समूह 's रिकार्ड लेबल.
Initially, TLC हासिल commercial success following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh...
on the tlc Tip, which sold 6 million copies worldwide.
However, it was their second एल्बम, CrazySexyCool, that catapulted the group to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified डायमंड by the riaa — a first for a female group, and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide.
Five years later, the समूह released their third album FanMail, which became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide.
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all time by a female band.
In 2002, Lisa `` Left Eye '' lopes died in a car accident in Honduras.
Seven months later, T-Boz और chilli released the समूह 's चौथी एल्बम 3d, which sold 2 million copies worldwide, it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
Billboard magazine ranked tlc as एक of the greatest musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the band accumulated ten top ten singles, चार क्रमांक एक singles, four multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC was ranked as the सातवाँ सबसे कामयाब अधिनियम of the 1990s by Billboard.
in 2008, the समूह थी inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine, at 56th place.
That year it was also listed as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 सालो.
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they are ranked as the second best selling female group of सब समय, और the बेहतरीन selling मादा r & b समूह of all time.
In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music, being क्रमित the number one all girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature एनिमेशन और वितरित by Walt Disney Pictures.
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics, it is based on the story टार्ज़न of the apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs, and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy, Bob Tzudiker, and Noni White, Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn, Minnie Driver, Glenn Close, and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit पहले the डिज़्नी slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of its release, its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना, जबतक अव्वल by डिज़्नी 's अपना $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was also the first Disney animated feature to open at # 1 since pocahontas.
This was the पिछला प्रमुख बक्सा दफ्तर success of the Disney Renaissance.
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible मंच.
Oil platform Mittelplate in the उत्तर sea
An oil platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill कुएं, to निकालें और प्रक्रम oil and natural gas, and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing.
In many cases, the मंच contains सुविधाएं to house the workforce as well.
Depending on the circumstances, the platform may be फिक्स्ड to the ocean floor, may consist of an artificial island, or may float.
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a मंच by प्रवाह लाइनों और by umbilical कनेक्शन्स.
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells, or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells.
Slaughter is the killing of animals, प्रायः कि of domestic livestock for food.
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle, water buffalo ( for beef and veal ), sheep, goats ( for lamb and mutton ), pigs ( for pork ), horses ( for horse meat ), and fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, and ducks and increasingly मछली इससे the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The श्वेत हाउस, the president 's official residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the President of the United States is the head of state and head of सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition.
the अध्यक्ष is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President अधिक than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the मौत, इस्तीफा, or removal from office of an incumbent President, the Vice President assumes the office.
The President must be at तनिक 35 सालो of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the अनुसमर्थन of the United States Constitution, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For American leaders before this ratification, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any Acting Presidents under the twenty-fifth amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, और 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln, जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड, विलियम mckinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was उदघाटन in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
विलियम हेनरी हैरिसन खर्च the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected after women gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only अध्यक्ष of रोमन कैथोलिक आस्था, और the current president, Barack Obama, is the first president of African descent.
Several firearms with detachable suppressors, from top to bottom : An Uzi, An ar-15, a heckler & koch USP Tactical, A Beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
Bolt कार्रवाई rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F स्निपर राइफल साथ attached suppressor.
a suppressor, ध्वनि suppressor, or ध्वनि मॉडरेटर, is a यंत्र संलग्न to or भाग of the बैरल of a firearm जिससे reduces the राशि of रव, और प्रायः the राशि of muzzle फ्लैश, उत्पन्न by फायरिंग the हथियार.
A suppressor can be used both with a firearm and with compressed air gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, इस पद is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile, especially one moving faster than the speed of sound, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. greater than 300 meters ) can lessen, or retard, the report at the moment of impact, and create the impression of silence near the target.
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
Early suppressors were निर्मित around the शुरूआत of the 20th century by several inventors.
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with hiram स्टीवंस कहावत, hiram पर्सी 's पिता, and the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ), is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave his यंत्र the trademarked name Maxim Silencer.
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th सदी, using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use, although it has since fallen out of favor with some, especially among the firearms industry, being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor, because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle फ्लैश और reduces the सोनिक दबाव of a firearm discharging.
Common उपयोग and U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier term, silencer.
In U.S. law, the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' हैं synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the संयुक्त राज्य Office of Strategic Services, who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM.22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II.
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट at the White House.
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell, Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished his message, Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him, announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol साथ an अभिन्न suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War.
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13, 1922 – अप्रैल 25, 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी actress, comedienne, and singer whose career spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude, and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls, winning Emmy पुरस्कार लिये दोनो भूमिकाएँ.
A stage actress both before and after her television success, she won the Tony Award for बेहतरीन प्रदर्शित अभिनेत्री in a musical लिये her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 जापानी 3d computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series, produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment.
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on July 26, 2011, and in Australia on July 27, 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening.
It was released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22, 2011 for USA, and December 1, 2011 for Japan.
This film was also released on dvd on नवम्बर 22, 2011 ( 2D Version only ).
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game, Tekken Hybrid, and the Nintendo 3DS title, Tekken 3D : Prime Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary पड़ोस advocacy groups, see neighborhood association.
In the United States, a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing, managing, and selling of घरों और lots in a residential subdivision.
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association, while allowing the developer to exit वित्तीय और विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन, typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the संघ to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots.
सदस्यता in the homeowners संघ by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it.
Most homeowner associations are incorporated, and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations और homeowner एसोसिएशन.
State oversight of homeowner एसोसिएशन is minimal, and mainly takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state.
Some states, such as Florida and California, have a large body of homeowner संघ विधि, और कुछ राज्य, such as Massachusetts, have virtually no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
चूंकि 1964, homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations Institute trade association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 लाख अमरीकी homes and 62 million residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
वहीँ हैं अनेक breeds of गिनी सुअर जिससे have महरूम विकसित चूंकि इसके domestication ca. 5000 bc.
Breeds vary widely in रूप और purpose, ranging from show breeds with long, flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science.
From ca. 1200 AD to the स्पेनी conquest of the इन्का Empire in 1532, selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs, which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds.
Early Andean breeds यहूद primarily रखा as agricultural भण्डार for food, and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era.
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th सदी, the लक्ष्य in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets.
To this समाप्त, विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी breeding organizations were founded by fanciers.
The American Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the अमरीकी खरगोश प्रजनक Association, is the governing body in the United States and Canada.
The British Cavy Council governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian नेशनल cavy परिषद ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ).
Each club publishes इसके अपना Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though there are many breeds of गिनी सुअर, तभी a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets.
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be pleasant pets regardless of कैसा खूब वे मिलें the नस्ल मानक of perfection.
The छोटी बाल, abyssinian, Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets, and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs.
In addition to उनके standard form, nearly all breeds come in a Satin variant.
Satins, due to their hollow hair shafts, possess coats of a खास gloss and shine.
However, वहीँ is growing प्रमाण कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems, including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease.
Showing Satin विसंगतियाँ is निषिद्ध by some cavy breeders ' associations because of animal welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should be rounded, with विशाल आँखें और large, smooth ears.
The body should be strong and of कॉम्पैक्ट निर्माण.
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly defined और thorough from root to tip.
These standards are best met by long established, commonly bred breeds, as their प्रजनक have था पर्याप्त समय और पशु to effectively breed for these qualities.
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds, which have had well established, पृथक प्रजनन लाइनों for different colours.
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for, in पूरे or in भाग, by कराधान.
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded, in whole or in part, and overseen by सरकारी.
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose sequence is नियंत्रित by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules.
This is required by all जीना cells and associated viruses.
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma, meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mrna ) molecules.
ribosomes consist of दो प्रमुख subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA, while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is composed of एक or अधिक ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins.
The sequence of DNA एन्कोडिंग लिये a protein may be copied many times into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein.
Amino acids are selected, collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ), जिससे डालें एक part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain.
The attached amino acids are then linked together by another भाग of the ribosome.
Once the protein is produced, it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific functional three-dimensional ढांचा.
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and प्रोटीन and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein.
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern, while the larger subunit बांधता to the trna और the amino acids.
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule, these two subunits split apart.
Ribosomes are ribozymes, because the catalytic peptidyl transferase कार्यकलाप that links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
ribosomes इससे जीवाणु, आर्किया और eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size, sequence, structure, and the ratio of protein to RNA.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes, while leaving human ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at one time, each `` reading '' its अनुक्रम और producing a सम्बन्धित protein molecule.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु, reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, Christian de duve, और George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, in 1974, for the discovery of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in रसायन 2009 थी awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
The simplified internal ढांचा of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and अन्य यौगिकों into ग्लूकोज.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further रासायनिक प्रक्रियाओं on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration.
Despite its name, इस प्रक्रम occurs only when light is available.
Plants do नहीं carry out the Calvin cycle by night.
They, बजाय, release sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation, C4 carbon fixation, and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
In mathematics, a square number or perfect square is an integer कि is the वर्गाकार of an पूर्णांक ; in other words, it is the product of some integer with itself.
For example, 9 is a square number, since it can be written as.
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is not the product, but the equivalent exponentiation, प्रायः सुनाया as `` वर्गाकार ''.
The name square number comes from the नाम of the आकार ; see below.
Square numbers are non-negative.
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a square number, is that its square roots are again integers.
For उदाहरण, = ±3, so 9 is a square number.
A positive integer that has no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors except 1 is called square-free.
For a non-negative integer, the th square क्रमांक is, साथ being the zeroth square.
The concept of square can be extended to some अन्य क्रमांक प्रणालियों.
If rational numbers are included, then a square is the ratio of two square integers, and, conversely, the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting with 1, there are square numbers up to and including, जहाँ the expression represents the floor of the number.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the संयुक्त राज्य that reflected a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it और the प्रबल democratic-republican party during the First Party System.
President जेम्स मुनरो endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in making his nominations, with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics.
The period is so closely संबद्ध with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain, this era also marks the first instance of economic परेशानियों in the growing संयुक्त States.
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay, protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South साथ the coming of the first financial crisis.
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony because of the political turmoil, economic कारकों caused animosity between the North and South.
The designation of the period by इतिहासकारों as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive, especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party.
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian Centinel, on July 12, 1817, following Monroe 's visit to Boston, Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America.
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17, 1972 ) is a retired American पेशेवर सॉकर खिलाड़ी.
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United राज्य महिलाओं 's नेशनल सॉकर टोली और was a founding member of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, more than any other player, male or female, in the history of soccer and is the third most capped मादा खिलाड़ी in सॉकर इतिहास पीछे kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two टाइम्स कि पुरस्कार was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ), and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the अलबामा खेल हॉल of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame.
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. महिलाओं 's सॉकर Team.
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm, `` Perhaps the most important खिलाड़ी of the last 15 years. ''
Hamm takes a कोने kick.
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison, New Jersey, representing the नई यॉर्क metropolitan area.
The team competes in the Eastern Conference of Major लीग सॉकर ( MLS ).
It is one of the ten चार्टर क्लब of MLS, having competed in the league since its inception.
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), but has gone through several नाम परिवर्तन.
The team was originally ज्ञात as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 season through the 2005 ऋतु, the team was known as the MetroStars.
On March 9, 2006, the team was sold to Red सांड gmbh, leading to the team 's current name.
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have जीती कोई significant trophy ( including regular season, playoffs, and knockout competition ) since inception.
The team 's best परिणाम in the MLS was the MLS Cup final in 2008.
In the US Open Cup, the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), before reaching their first final in 2003, खोने 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On August 26, 2000, the Metros ' Clint Mathis set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn.
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese, Tim Howard, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, Alexi Lalas, Clint Mathis, Jozy Altidore, Michael Bradley, Claudio Reyna, Eddie Pope, Roberto Donadoni, Lothar Matthäus, Adolfo Valencia, Youri Djorkaeff, Amado Guevara, Juan Pablo Ángel, Thierry Henry, Juninho pernambucano, जन गुन्नार solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also had well-known coaches, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto Parreira, Bora Milutinović, Bob Bradley, Mo johnston, ब्रूस Arena and Hans Backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism are one, a painting in the litang स्टाइल portraying तीन मेन हँस by a river stream, 12th century, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world, or in many countries, is difficult due to definitional issues as खूब as व्यावहारिक problems of enumeration.
To begin with, the religious beliefs, practices, and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's बौद्धों by कोई माप ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism, the Chinese folk religion, Daoism, Shinto, and Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations, or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as लेने शरण, बनाना it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners.
An additional challenge is the दुश्मनी of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence, resulting in official योग कि may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries.
Estimate of the worldwide बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी दायरा इससे 350 million to over one billion, but cluster nearer to the first figure.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million.
by प्रमुख branches, the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, including East Asian buddhism, साथ no कम than 185 million adherents, and possibly several times that many ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
This is the predominant रूप of Buddhism practiced in China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, and Vietnam.
( 2 ) थेरवाद Buddhism, with no fewer than 125 million adherents.
This is the predominant form of buddhism practiced in Cambodia, Thailand, Laos, Sri Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, with लगभग 20 million adherents.
This form predominates in the वृहद तिब्बती और Mongolian regions, as well as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan, and various territories within what is now western China, Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g. Kalmykia, Buryatia ), इण्डिया ( e.g. लद्दाख, सिक्किम ), और नेपाल ( e.g. Khumbu ).
Vajrayana, भी ज्ञात as Tibetan Buddhism, is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism, but this is imprecise, as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra.
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Burma, Bhutan, and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and अन्य ईस्ट एशियाई adherents, this figure might expand to include several more countries.
In addition, buddhism is the राज्य धर्म of Cambodia and Bhutan, and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka.
In northern India and Nepal, the जमीन जहाँ buddhism थी born, the religion severely declined during the first millennium.
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of उत्तरी इण्डिया, or to other factors, remains controversial.
See the article Decline of buddhism in India.
James Butler Hickok ( May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), better ज्ञात as जंगली विधेयक hickok, was a folk hero of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter and scout, along with his reputation as a lawman, provided the basis for his fame, although कुछ of उसके reported कारनामे हैं fictionalized.
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois, hickok गई वेस्ट at आयु 18 as a fugitive from justice, first working as a stagecoach driver, before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska.
He fought for the संघ फौज दौरान the American Civil War, and gained publicity after the war as a scout, marksman, actor, and professional gambler.
Between his law-enforcement कर्तव्य और जुए, which easily overlapped, Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts.
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's सैलून in deadwood, डकोटा Territory ( now South Dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on मंगल.
The रोवर landed on Mars in August 2012.
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle जिससे propels itself आरपार the सतह of the planet Mars after landing.
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory, they can be directed to interesting features, they can place themselves in sunny स्थितियाँ to मौसम शीत महीने और वे can अग्रिम the ज्ञान of कैसा to perform very remote robotic vehicle control.
There have been four कामयाब robotically operated Mars rovers.
The Jet नोदन प्रयोगशाला managed the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover.
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active Opportunity rover and inactive स्पिरिट, and, as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission, the Curiosity rover.
A financial audit, or more accurately, an audit of financial statements, is the सत्यापन of the वित्तीय कथन of a legal entity, with a view to express an audit opinion.
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance, that the financial कथन हैं प्रस्तुत fairly, in सब सामग्री respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements, which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management, thus increase user confidence in the financial बयान, reduce निवेशकों रिस्क और consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements.
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants जो हैं experts in financial reporting.
The वित्तीय ऑडिट is one of many assurance functions provided by accounting firms.
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors, who do not attest to वित्तीय रिपोर्ट्स लकिन फ़ोकस mainly on the internal controls of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization, therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to छिपाते unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the बेंचमार्क लिये ऑडिट प्रक्रम.
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local विभिन्नता of the ISA.
Dollar coins have been minted in the संयुक्त राज्य in gold, silver, and base metal versions.
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ a फेस मान of एक dollar, although purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal.
Silver डॉलर, the पहला डालर सिक्का issue, were minted beginning in 1794.
Gold dollars and gold-colored डॉलर have भी been produced by the United States.
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are often referred to as `` golden dollars ''.
In modern times, dollar coins have not been बहुत लोकप्रिय in the United States.
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use, most Americans currently use the one dollar विधेयक बल्कि than डालर सिक्के.
In straight और स्तर flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ).
In a banked फेरे of 60°, लिफ्ट बराबरी double the weight ( L=2W ).
The pilot experiences 2g और a doubled weight.
The steeper the bank, the greater the g-forces.
इस top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary मामला the pythagorean प्रमेय yields a g फ़ोर्स of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations लगा as वज़न and measurable by accelerometers.
It is not a force, per se, but a force per ईकाई द्रव्यमान.
Since such a force is perceived as a weight, कोई g-force can be described as a `` weight per unit mass '' ( see the synonym specific weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a गुणक of weight-like शक्तियां लिये प्रत्येक ईकाई of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's mass, and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
इस त्वरण experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move.
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations, and it is only these that हैं measured in g-force units.
They cause stresses and strains on वस्तुएँ.
Because of these strains, विशाल g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force, even though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity.
Thus, the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's सतह produces g-force only indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground, keeping the object from going into free-fall.
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition, which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center.
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, feel no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ), or ( to good approximation ) शर्तें अंदर a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a बदलें in गति ) बगैर a sensation of weight.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is उत्पादित, is synonymous साथ weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at right angles to them, proper and coordinate accelerations हैं the वही, और कोई निर्देशांक त्वरण जरूर be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
An example here is a rocket in free space, in which simple परिवर्तन in गति हैं उत्पादित by the engines, and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur holding a lituus, the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and official in the classical world, especially ancient रोम और Etruria.
His प्रमुख भूमिका थी to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone, what noises they make as they fly, direction of flight and what kind of birds they are.
This थी ज्ञात as `` taking the auspices. ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of war, कॉमर्स, और धर्म.
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was founded only after लेने the auspices, कि सबकुछ in युद्ध और in peace, at home and abroad, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in southeastern मिशिगन.
It is the second largest city in ओकलैंड County in the U.S. state of Michigan.
Its जनसांख्यिकी was 79,740 at the 2010 census.
It is भाग of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor.
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest शहरों in the United States, as well as in the state of Michigan.
In 2010, the area ranked as the 30th safest नगर in America.
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses, Farmington and farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं often thought of as the same community.
Features of the community शामिल a recently renovated downtown, boutiques, a vintage cinema, numerous restaurants, exotic car dealerships, art galleries, and public parks including Heritage Park.
There are several historical साइट including the Longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion.
Both cities are परोसा by farmington Public Schools.
farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves as a major business center for the greater Detroit area.
present-day impression of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal ( मेट्रिक्स ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a device for making an छाप in मोम, मिट्टी, पेपर, or कुछ अन्य मीडियम, including an embossment on paper, and is also the impression thus made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper for one such as a modern लिफाफा, or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects.
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould, with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making यंत्र is भी referred to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the impression is बना purely as a राहत resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high parts of the matrix touch, the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another color than the paper.
For legal purposes, the definition of a seal may be extended to शामिल rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the United States, the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ), which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings, on ध्वज, or on आधिकारिक letterheads.
Thus, for example, the Great Seal of the United States, among other uses, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags.
In Europe, although coats of arms and heraldic बैज may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals, the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics.
groundhog दिन ( पेन्सिलवेनिया German : Grundsaudaag, Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day, then spring will come early ; if it is sunny, the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow, and the winter weather होगा continue for six more weeks.
Modern कस्टम of the अवकाश involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow.
In southeastern Pennsylvania, groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge, social events in which food is served, speeches are made, and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the तभी भाषा spoken at the event, and those who speak English pay a penalty, usually in the form of a nickel, dime, or quarter per word spoken, with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is आयोजित in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular tradition, received widespread attention as a परिणाम of the 1993 फिल्मी groundhog दिन, जिससे थी नियत in Punxsutawney, PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock, IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil.
High resolution image of Tampa Bay प्रदेश
The tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रै a आर्द्र उपोष्ण climate ( Koppen Cfa ), with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years.
The area experiences a significant summer wet season, as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation जलप्रपात in the महीने of जून through September.
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10, which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown.
highs प्रायः range between 65 and 95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round.
Though known for hot ग्रीष्म, tampa 's official high has never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. Petersburg 's all-time रिकार्ड ऊँची is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay.
इस निकटता to विशाल लाशें of जल दोनो नरमपंथियों temperatures और introduces विशाल amounts of आर्द्रता into the माहौल.
In general, the लोकल समुदायों farthest इससे the coast have larger temperature ranges, both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year.
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum, showing various गुण across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the ब्रह्मांड itself, जबकि it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण for more applications ).
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by उसके आद्याक्षर, fdr, was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932, as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his अभियान थीम, fdr पराजित लाज़िम Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal विजय over पोलियो, fdr 's unfailing आशावाद and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely साथ अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( आर्थिक विकास ), और सुधार ( through विनियमन of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall गली by the प्रतिभूति and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with अनेक छोटी कार्यक्रम, प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, which Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would सप्लाई munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with congressional स्वीकृति, provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis शक्तियां और the विकास of the संसार 's पहला atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
रूज़वेल्ट वर्चस्व the American political scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big city machines, white ethnics, African अमेरिकी और ग्रामीण श्वेत southerners.
he भी बहकावे the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents, along with Abraham lincoln और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a छोटी बाएँ of center. ''
A Joint Committee is a पद in राजनीती कि is प्रयुक्त to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature.
In other contexts, it refers to a committee with members from more than one organization.
The regulation of prostitution in the संयुक्त राज्य is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
in सबसे राज्य, वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Only 8 counties फिलहाल contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ), Washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ), कार्सन नगर, डगलस County, and Lincoln County.
The other counties theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, but some of these counties currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal under Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other countries, prostitution in the संयुक्त राज्य can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 धारियाँ represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
nicknames लिये the ध्वज शामिल the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` Old Glory ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories.
The states and territories are further subdivided into districts and so on.
congressional districts for the 113th United States Congress
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, starting in 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2010 census.
2000 Census change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, from 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional districts लिये representation in the United States House of Representatives.
The quantity ( apportionment ) and सीमाएँ ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after each census, although in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This list includes the 435 current and over 200 obsolete जिले.
For उदाहरण, चूंकि the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, नेब्रास्का रै था तीन जिले, लकिन it प्रयुक्त to have as अनेक as छह.
In the first decade of the twenty-first century, टेक्सास था 32 जिले, लकिन has since added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census.
Other states have lost districts since the number of congressional seats has been नियत at 435 by statute.
भी शामिल here are non-voting delegations : six current and four obsolete.
The boundaries of districts प्रायः shift with each redistricting.
Over time, the प्रदेश and demographics represented in a district can change substantially.
furthermore, districts sometimes retain the same boundaries while changing their district numbers.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, रिकार्ड producer, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four लगातार क्रमांक एक singles on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records भाव ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the album, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at जिससे time Carey had separated from Mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor रिसेप्शन, वो was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 million, which led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful period, returned to the top of music चार्ट with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second सिंगल `` we belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s, and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व, और Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over दो दशकों, कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख records worldwide, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
Carey was भी नामित the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry संघ of अमेरिका, she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained उसके eighteenth number one single in the United States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was ranked second on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has won five ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World Records, she is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
Stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or विभिन्न रसायन निलंबित in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
These suspended particles are also known as aerosols.
Clouds in धरती 's atmosphere are studied in the cloud physics branch of meteorology.
Two processes, possibly acting together, can lead to एयर बनने संतृप्त ; कूलिंग the air or adding water vapor to the air.
In general, वर्षण होगा पतन to the सतह ; an exception is virga, which evaporates before reaching the surface.
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward growth like cumulus, appear in non-convective परतदार चादरें ऐसे as स्ट्रेट्स, or लो the रूप of पतला तंतुमय wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these basic फ़ॉर्म or to बताएँ मध्य or ऊँची ऊँचाई सीमाएँ.
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to heavy precipitation, alto- लिये मध्य बादल, और cirro- लिये ऊँची clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure.
Whether or not a cloud is low, middle, or high level depends on how far above the ground its आधार forms.
Cloud types with significant vertical extent can form in the low or middle ऊँचाई सीमाएँ depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of Luke Howard 's cloud categorization प्रणाली, जिससे began to स्प्रेड in लोकप्रियता दौरान December 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled अवलोकन समय आधारित on the height and physical appearance of the clouds.
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's troposphere, वहीँ हैं अवसरों जब बादल in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
ये तीन main layers of the atmosphere where clouds may be seen are collectively known as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere, which together make up the heterosphere कि marks the transition to outer space.
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons within the Solar System, but, due to their different temperature characteristics, they are composed of other substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas within the houston–sugar land–baytown metropolitan area.
As of the 2010 census, the population was 291,309.
Its county seat is Galveston.
League City is the largest city in Galveston County in terms of population ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city.
Galveston County थी founded in 1838.
nassau
freeport, Bahamas
This is a list of शहरों in the Bahamas.
The following table lists the city or town name, the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक, the population as of the 1990 census, an estimate of the population as of 2009, and the island name.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference, is the oldest Division I college athletic conference in the United States.
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their respective states, well-regarded academically, and with relatively large student enrollment ) are located primarily in the Midwest, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the Football Bowl subdivision ( FBS ), formerly known as Division I-A, the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport.
Member स्कूलों of the बिग टेन ( or, in दो मामले, their parent university systems ) also are members of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the Big Ten actually consists of 12 schools, following the addition of The Pennsylvania State University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will expand to 14 सदस्यों साथ the परिवर्धन of the विश्वविद्यालयों of Maryland, College Park and Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
It is not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference, which has only ten schools and represents a different region of the country.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a pot still distillation process at a single distillery, साथ malted जौ as the only grain ingredient.
As with any Scotch whisky, a सिंगल malt स्कॉच must be distilled in Scotland and matured in oak casks in Scotland for at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ).
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is distilled इससे a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of grains can be malted ( for example, barley, rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने which can be malted ) ; however, in the case of single malt Scotch, barley is always the only grain used.
`` Single '' indicates that all the malts in the bottle आइये from a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple distilleries are called `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky, but this is no longer the case.
Under the terminology established by the swr 2009, a `` blended malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies, not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a bottle of single malt Scotch is the number of years the व्हिस्की खर्च maturing in cask.
As very few whiskies हैं बोतलबंद इससे a सिंगल cask the age statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object औकात of fused-ensemble timbres, for example, the beautiful 'northern lights ' chord..., in a very interesting distribution of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to more traditional musical textures, sound mass संयोजन `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in preference for texture, timbre, and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
Techniques which may create or be used with sound mass include extended techniques such as muted brass or strings, आतुर tonguing, चौड़ी vibrato, चरम सीमाएँ, and glissandos.
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb, Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus ( 1961 ), Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy वैन de Vate.
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and इंस्ट्रूमेंटल clusters, choral speech, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where chaos is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A बाद उदाहरण is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example.
The use of `` मदारी approaching timbres '' begins साथ debussy और edgard varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता फ्यूज into एक ensemble timbre or ध्वनि द्रव्यमान ( एरिक्सन 1975, pp. 18 और 21 ).
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki, Karel Husa, Witold Lutosławski, Kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
Sound mass techniques also appear in the म्यूज़िक of George Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a lecture on linear algebra at the Helsinki विश्वविद्यालयों of Technology
विद्यार्थियों in rural Sudan, 2002
A student is a learner, or किसी जो attends an educational institution.
In some nations, the अंग्रेज़ी पद ( or इसके cognate in another भाषा ) is सुरक्षित लिये those who attend university, while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in other languages ), although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student.
In its widest use, student is used for anyone जो is learning.
Australia is a continent comprising mainland Australia, Tasmania, New Guinea, Seram, संभवतः timor, और neighbouring islands.
The continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names sahul, Australinea or Meganesia, to distinguish it from the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the seven traditional महाद्वीपों in the English conception.
New Zealand is not part of the continent of Australia, but of the पृथक, submerged continent of Zealandia.
Zealandia and Australia are both part of the wider regions known as Australasia and Oceania.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by उथले समंदर जिससे divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New Guinea, and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania.
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice आयु, सहित the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC, they were connected by dry land.
During the past ten thousand years, rising sea levels overflowed the lowlands और अलग the continent into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf, so the now-separate islands हैं considered part of the continent.
Due to the स्प्रेड of पशु, fungi and plants across the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as big as the संसार 's second-smallest country, Monaco.
historically इसके reservoirs were important components of the city 's water supply.
Environmental issues in New York नगर हैं प्रभावित by the city 's size, density, abundant public transportation infrastructure, and location at the mouth of the Hudson River.
New York 's population density has पर्यावरणीय फायदे और cons.
It facilitates the highest mass transit use in the United States, लकिन भी concentrates pollution.
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s, and greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons per व्यक्ति per year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 metric tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
New York City खाते लिये तभी 1 % of संयुक्त States greenhouse gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population.
In September 2012, New York was named the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City, '' by a travel+leisure readership survey that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States.
अटलांटा (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia, with an estimated 2011 population of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, home to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United States.
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County, and a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines, and the city rose from the राख of the सिविल युद्ध to become a national center of commerce.
In the दशकों following the Civil Rights Movement, during which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' for the progressive views of its citizens and leaders, Atlanta attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States, via राजमार्ग, railroad, and air, with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998.
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world city, '' and, with a gross domestic उत्पाद of us $ 270 अरब, atlanta’s अर्थव्यवस्था बाँधने 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s अर्थव्यवस्था is माना विविध, प्रबल sectors include logistics, professional and business services, media operations, government administration, and higher education.
Topographically, अटलांटा is चिह्नित by rolling hills and dense tree coverage.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods, initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics, has intensified in the 21st सदी, altering the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी, politics, and culture.
a 1947 प्रचार कॉमिक book published by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the अभ्यास of बनाना आरोपों of disloyalty, subversion, or treason without proper regard for evidence.
It also means `` the practice of बनाना अन्यायपूर्ण दोषारोपण or using unfair investigative techniques, especially in order to restrict dissent or political criticism. ''
The term has its origins in the period in the United States known as the Second Red Scare, lasting roughly from 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of कम्युनिस्ट influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s. सीनेटर जोसेफ McCarthy of Wisconsin, `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
the पद is भी अभी प्रयुक्त अधिक generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated accusations, as well as demagogic attacks on the character or patriotism of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive investigations and questioning पहले government or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The primary targets of such suspicions were government employees, those in the entertainment industry, educators और संघ activists.
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable प्रमाण, and the level of threat posed by a person 's real or supposed leftist associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated.
Many people suffered घाटा of employment and/or destruction of their careers ; some even suffered imprisonment.
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned, laws that would be घोषित असंवैधानिक, dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures that would come into general disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches, investigations, and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist, associated with hearings conducted by the House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural घटना कि प्रभावित सब स्तर of समाज और थी the source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States.
Napoleon is a fictional अक्षर and the main antagonist in George Orwell 's Animal Farm.
While he is at first a common farm pig, he gets rid of Snowball, another pig which shares the शक्ति.
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` अध्यक्ष of एनिमल Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory कि plugs सीधे into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it रै अनुमत लोगों to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world.
Along with its sister project, शुक्र, NEPTUNE offers a unique approach to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent जलयान क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry out their research, while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet थी a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s, initially the division 's highest trim line but, starting in 1955, the lowest trim line.
In the 1960s, the नाम थी transferred to Dodge 's mid-size entry.
ARM9 is an ARM वास्तुकला 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political जातियाँ founded for the common good.
Historically, it रै sometimes been synonymous with `` republic ``.
More recently it has been used for fraternal एसोसिएशन of some sovereign nations.
Most notably, the Commonwealth of Nations, an association primarily of former members of the British Empire, is often referred to as बस `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners यहूद hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, were crashed into the North and South मीनारें, क्रमशः, of the संसार Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's नेता, ओसामा बिन लादेन, initially denied any involvement, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited u.S. support of इसराईल, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the युद्ध on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and विस्तारित law enforcement powers.
Having evaded कैप्चर लिये सालो, bin Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of निम्नतर मैनहटन और था a significant प्रभाव on global markets.
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site थी समाप्त in may 2002, and the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the नेशनल September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the एक संसार व्यापार बीच is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater Lake National Park is a United States National Park located in southern Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest national park in the United States and the only one in the state of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake, a remnant of a destroyed volcano, Mount Mazama, and the surrounding hills and forests.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, which makes it the deepest lake in the United States, the second deepest in North America and the ninth deepest in the world.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world, but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in अंटार्कटिक, जिससे resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ, और the हाल रपट of a अधिकतम गहराई for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, when comparing its औसत गहराई of to the औसत गहराई of other deep lakes, Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world.
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range.
The caldera rim ranges in उन्नयन इससे.
The United राज्य geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the lake surface itself is.
इस National Park encompasses.
Crater Lake has no streams flowing into or आउट of it.
All water that enters the lake is eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct precipitation in the form of snow and rain.
The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the United States.
It has ultimate ( and largely विवेकाधीन ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state court cases involving issues of federal law, and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States Supreme अदालत भवन in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., consists of a chief justice and eight associate justices who are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate.
Once appointed, justices have life tenure unless they resign, retire, or are removed बाद महाभियोग.
Conroe is the seat of Montgomery County and falls within the महानगर area.
It is located about उत्तर of Houston.
As of July 2011, the city population was 58,973, up from 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint गति, जिससे adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421.
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as The Book of Mormon : An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken इससे the प्लेटों of nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and also according to the book 's narrative, the Book of Mormon was originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to योगदान to the किताब, a man नामित moroni, दफ्न it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an angel, revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as evidence of the restoration of Christ 's true church in the latter days.
The Book of Mormon has a क्रमांक of असली और distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam and Eve, the nature of the Atonement, eschatology, redemption from physical and spiritual death, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal event of the book is an appearance of Jesus Christ to the americas shortly after his resurrection.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day Saint movement, the denominations of which typically regard the text not only as scripture लकिन भी as a ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड of परमेश्वर 's dealings साथ the प्राचीन inhabitants of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled after the individuals named as primary लेखक और, in सबसे संस्करण, divided into chapters and verses.
It is written in English, very similar to the Early Modern English linguistic style of the King James Version of the Bible, and has चूंकि महरूम fully or partially अनूदित into 108 languages.
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or enlisted rate ) is, in most militaries, कोई रैंक नीचे that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned officers.
In most cases, आयोजिक सेवा कर्मियों perform कार्य विशिष्ट to their own occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was पहला अंकित by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति in 1999.
The प्रकाशन for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
1908 poster advertising Gaumont 's sound films.
The Chronomégaphone, designed for विशाल हॉल, employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound.
A sound film is a गति picture with synchronized sound, or sound technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a silent film.
The first known public exhibition of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900, but decades होता pass पहले sound motion pictures were made commercially practical.
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with the early sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, और प्रवर्धन और recording quality were also inadequate.
नवप्रवर्तनों in sound-on-film led to the first commercial screening of short motion pictures using the technology, which took place in 1923.
The primary steps in the commercialization of ध्वनि सिनेमा यहूद taken in the mid- to late 1920s.
At पहला, the ध्वनि films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound included only music and effects.
The first feature film originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie was The Jazz Singer, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it was made with Vitaphone, the अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc technology.
Sound-on-film, however, would जल्द become the standard for talking pictures.
By the जल्दी 1930s, the टॉकीज़ were a global phenomenon.
In the United States, they helped secure Hollywood 's position as one of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and critics, who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In Japan, where the popular film tradition integrated silent movie and live vocal performance, talking pictures were slow to take root.
In India, sound was the transformative element that led to the rapid expansion of the nation 's film industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s.
African people are natives or निवासियों of Africa and people of African descent.
The Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an annual series of awards nights celebrating the Australian music industry, put on by the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually since 1987 और encompasses the सामान्य genre-specific और लोकप्रिय पुरस्कार ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), Lifetime Achievement Awards and ARIA Hall of Fame – held separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, ARIA introduced public voted awards for the first time.
Winning, or even being nominated for, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and usually increases रिकॉर्डिंग बिक्री several-fold – in 2005, लिये उदाहरण, बाद Ben Lee won three awards, his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped from No. 31 to No. 5 in the ARIA Charts, its highest position.
For-profit education ( also known as the education services industry or proprietary education ) refers to educational संस्थानों संचालित by निजी, लाभ -seeking व्यवसायों.
There are three types of for-profit स्कूलों.
One type is known as an educational management organization ( भावनाएं ), and these are primary and secondary educational institutions.
EMOs work with school districts or चार्टर स्कूलों, using public funds to finance operations.
The majority of for-profit schools in the k–12 सेक्टर in अमेरिका फलन as emos, and have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
The other major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions which operate as businesses, receiving शुल्क from each student they enroll.
A third type of for-profit schools, which is less prevalent in the United States, are k–12 स्कूलों which operate as businesses.
EMOs function differently from charter schools created in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; most charter schools हैं mission-oriented, जबकि emos and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented.
While supporters argue that the profit motive encourages दक्षता, इस व्यवस्था रै भी drawn controversy and criticism.
Kevin Carey, director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that `` For-profits exist in large part to fix educational market failures left by traditional institutions, and they profit by सेवारत विद्यार्थी कि पब्लिक और निजी nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no doubt that the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting the commodified college degree.
But they did n't commodify it in the first place. ''
Amendment xxii in the National Archives
The twenty-second amendment of the United States Constitution sets a term limit for election to the office of President of the United States.
कॉंग्रेस passed the amendment on March 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the requisite number of राज्य on फ़रवरी 27, 1951.
This is an episode guide for the दुश्मनी series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the title used in the English dubbed संस्करण airing in the संयुक्त States on Cartoon Network.
A short summary will follow, introducing the episode and referring to some of the gags, but not giving the पूरा summaries to the episodes.
All names and some of the references will be the ones used from the English-language version to avoid confusion.
Japanese names may be presented after the dub name in parentheses.
This आलेख is परिचय the public park in New York City.
For other uses, see Central Park ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Central Park is a public park at the बीच of Manhattan in New York City.
The park initially opened in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux won a design competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they हकदार the greensward Plan.
Construction began the same year, continued during the American Civil War, and was completed in 1873.
Central Park is the सबसे visited urban park in the United States.
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is currently managed by the सेंट्रल Park Conservancy under contract with the city government.
the conservancy is a non-profit संगठन कि contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल पार्क 's $ 37.5 लाख सालाना बजट, और employs 80.7 % of the पार्क 's मेंटेनेंस स्टाफ.
TracFone Wireless, inc. is a प्रीपेड बेतार service provider operating in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ), TracFone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service सहित those of verizon, at & t, स्प्रिंट, and T-Mobile.
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under multiple brands which each also offer distinctive service plans, the brands include tracfone, NET10 Wireless, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and Simple Mobile.
A पकड़ें dredge
dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at least partly underwater, in shallow seas or fresh water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location.
This technique is प्रायः used to keep waterways navigable.
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on some public beaches, where sand has been lost because of coastal erosion.
Dredging is also used as a technique for fishing for certain species of edible clams and crabs, देखिए फ़िशिंग dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the Americas ) is any device, machine, or vessel that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water.
For example, a scoop attached to the end of a rope or pole by which a man can draw sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this विचार further, a motorized क्रेन equipped साथ a drag bucket or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger.
The crane could be located on the bank, or शायद mounted on a barge.
If the crane is mounted on a barge, the संपूर्ण पोत is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ), which are carried away इससे the dredged क्षेत्रफल.
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or अन्य उद्देश्य ( प्रायः construction-related ), और has also historically played a significant role in gold mining.
Dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, often साथ प्रतिकूल impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the aleutian आइलैंड्स of Alaska photographed from the International Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic राख और gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes हैं generally found where tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually नहीं निर्मित where two tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
इस प्रकार of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate सीमाएँ has also been explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards, not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग तापमान.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict Arnold ( June 14, 1801 ) was a general during the American Revolutionary War who originally fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army.
While a general on the American side, he obtained command of the fort at West Point, New York, and planned to surrender it to the अंग्रेजों शक्तियां.
After the plan was exposed in September 1780, he was commissioned into the British फौज as a ब्रिगेडियर general.
Born in Connecticut, Arnold was a merchant operating ships on the Atlantic Ocean when the war broke out in 1775.
बाद joining the growing army outside Boston, he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and bravery.
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776, the Battle of ridgefield, कनेक्टिकट ( after which he was promoted to major general ), operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years.
Despite Arnold 's successes, he was passed over for promotion by the Continental Congress while other अधिकारियों claimed क्रेडिट for some of his accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance, but most प्रायः he थी acquitted in formal inquiries.
Congress investigated his accounts and found he थी ऋणी to Congress after spending much of his own money on the war effort.
Frustrated and bitter, Arnold decided to बदलें पहलू in 1779, and opened secret negotiations with the British.
In July 1780, he was offered, जारी to pursue and was awarded command of West Point.
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the British was exposed when American forces captured British Major जॉन आंद्रे carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of André 's capture, Arnold fled down the Hudson नदी to the अंग्रेजों sloop-of-war गिद्ध, narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of George Washington, who had been alerted to the plot.
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the British Army, an annual pension of £360, and a lump sum of over £6,000.
He led British forces on छापे in वर्जिनिया, and against New London and Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown.
In the winter of 1782, Arnold moved to London with उसके दूसरी wife, Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold.
He was well received by किंग George III and the Tories but frowned upon by the Whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the व्यापारी कारोबार with his sons Richard and Henry in Saint John, New Brunswick.
He returned to लंदन to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten years later.
Because of the way he changed sides, his name quickly became a in the संयुक्त राज्य for treason or betrayal.
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous nature of some of the memorials that have महरूम लगाई in his honor.
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born नवम्बर 14, 1966 ) is a former American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer.
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in and won संसार श्रेणी championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox.
Schilling रिटायर्ड साथ a career postseason record of 11–2.
His.846 postseason winning प्रतिशत is a major-league record among pitchers with at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he founded Green Monster Games which was renamed 38 studios.
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, but just तीन महीने बाद, schilling रखी बंद उसके संपूर्ण स्टाफ amid कठोर वित्तीय परेशानियों that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week.
Star Wars is an अमरीकी epic space opera franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas.
The film series has spawned a media franchise outside the film series called the Expanded Universe including books, television series, computer and video games, and comic books.
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant विकास of the series ' fictional universe.
These media kept the franchise क्रियाशील in the interim between the film trilogies.
The franchise portrays a galaxy that is described as far, far away in the distant past.
It commonly portrays Jedi as a प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ, in विरोध with the Sith, their evil counterpart.
उनके हथियार of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly recognized in popular culture.
The fictional universe also contains many themes, especially प्रभाव of philosophy and religion.
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25, 1977, under the title Star Wars, by 20th Century Fox, and became a worldwide pop culture घटना, followed by दो सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
सोलह सालो बाद the रिलीज of the trilogy 's final film, the first in a new prequel trilogy of films was released.
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals, with the फाइनल फिल्मी of the त्रयी released on May 19, 2005.
In October 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion और घोषित कि it होता उपज तीन नई films, with the first film, Star Wars Episode VII, planned for release in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies, owning permanent rights for the original film Episode IV : A New आशा, जबकि पकड़कर the अधिकारों to Episodes I–III, V and VI until May 2020.
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive, with the last film being considered the weakest, while the prequel trilogy received a more mixed reaction, with most of the praise being for the final फिल्म, according to सबसे पुनर्विलोकन एग्रीगेटर वेबसाइटों.
All six of the main films in the series were also nominated लिये or won Academy Awards.
All of the main films have been box office successes, with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars : The Clone Wars ) totalling $ 4.49 billion, making it the third-highest-grossing film series.
The कामयाबी रै भी led to multiple re-releases in theaters for the series.
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, though these names are rarely used ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes, more commonly called platelets, a component of blood involved in blood clotting.
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets, which is performed by a device used in blood donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the रक्त to the donor.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious complications from bleeding and hemorrhage in patients जो have विकार manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis.
In computer networking, a port is an application-specific or process-specific software construct serving as a communications endpoint in a computer 's host operating system.
A port is associated with an IP address of the host, as well as the type of protocol used for संचार.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or प्रक्रियाओं कार्यशील on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a single physical connection to a packet-switched network like the Internet.
The protocols that primarily उपयोग पोर्ट हैं the हस्तांतरण परत प्रोटोकॉल, such as the Transmission Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite.
A port is पहचाना for each address and protocol by a 16-bit number, commonly known as the port number.
The port number, added to a computer 's IP address, completes the destination पता लिये a संचार session.
That is, data packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP address, and then, upon reaching the destination computer, are further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number.
Note कि it is the संयोजन of ip address and port number together that must be globally unique.
Thus, different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for communication ; e.g., on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may use the same port number, or on a host with two interfaces, both पता may be संबद्ध साथ a बंदरगाहों having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known ports are reserved by convention to पहचानो विशिष्ट सेवा types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, ports are used to provide a multiplexing service on each server-side port number that network clients connect to for service initiation, after which communication can be reestablished on अन्य connection-specific port numbers.
क्षेत्रफल कोड 479 is the टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड सेवारत तेरह काउंटी in उत्तरपश्चिम Arkansas, including the cities of Fort Smith, Fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the second, third, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, respectively.
It was निर्मित in 2002 in a split from area code 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, कैरल ( विभाजित साथ क्षेत्रफल कोड 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, Logan, Madison, Polk, Pope, Scott, Sebastian, Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the आरोप विरूद्ध him or her.
In response to arraignment, the accused is अपेक्षित to डालें a दलील.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include `` guilty '', `` not guilty '', और the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) and the `` Alford plea `` are allowed in some circumstances.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Australia, arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty to प्रत्येक charge.
In federal courts of the United States, arraignment takes प्लेस in two stages.
The first is called the initial arraignment and must take place within 48 hours of an individual 's arrest, 72 hours if the individual was गिरफ्तार on the वीकेंड और नहीं समर्थ to go पहले a न्यायधीश until Monday.
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the pending legal charges और is सूचित of उसके or उसके सही to retain counsel.
the पीठासीन न्यायधीश भी decides at कया राशि, if कोई, to नियत जमानत.
During the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or PIA, the defendant is allowed to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), known as the Father of English literature, is widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages and was the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author, philosopher, alchemist and astronomer, composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe लिये उसके टेन year-old बेटे लुईस, चासर भी कायम an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, courtier and diplomat.
Among his many works, which include The Book of the Duchess, the House of Fame, the Legend of Good Women and Troilus and Criseyde, he is best known today for the canterbury किस्से.
चासर is a निर्णायक फिगर in विकासशील the legitimacy of the देशी, मध्य अंग्रेज़ी, at a समय जब the प्रबल साहित्यिक भाषाएं in इंग्लैण्ड यहूद फ्रेंच और लैटिन.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that affected उत्तरी इलिनोइस और उत्तरपश्चिम इंडियाना, u.S. on जनवरी 13 – January 14, 1979.
of snow fell on January 13 alone, setting a नई रिकार्ड for snow in one calendar day.
by the समाप्त of January 14, of snow had fallen.
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the शिकागो 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses, जल्दी overwhelming capacity, resulting in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours.
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets, the overcrowded buses were obliged to take numerous detours, adding अतिरिक्त time to the commute.
deployment of plows was significantly delayed and when they finally appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months, causing ongoing public transit delays and significant problems with कचरा संग्रहण.
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor Michael Bilandic, who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the समय blasted bilandic ; Jane Byrne, Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along ), capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary.
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem, meaning `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting as zero ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was developed over time from the mid-second मिलेनियम bc to the 16th century AD.
Health spending per capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, साथ the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations.
तुलना of the स्वास्थ्य परवाह systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had समान स्वास्थ्य care systems before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada, on both a per-capita basis and as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the u.S., us $ 6,714.
The U.S. खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by government, versus 46 % in the United राज्य.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public और निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't लो into खाता population differences.
Studies have come to different conclusions परिचय the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
जीवन प्रत्याशा is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S., but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the वितरण of स्वास्थ्य, the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared साथ 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 सालो compared साथ 78.6 सालो लिये निवासियों of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The WHO 's study methods were criticized by कुछ analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing अंतरराष्ट्रीय comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and very large arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae family of spiders, of which approximately 900 species have been identified.
This article only describes members of Theraphosidae, although some other members of the same suborder are commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most species of tarantulas are not खतरनाक to humans, and some species have become popular in the exotic pet trade.
The ton is a unit of measure.
It has a long history and has acquired a क्रमांक of meanings and uses over the years.
It is used प्रधानतया as a ईकाई of weight, and as a unit of volume.
It can भी be प्रयुक्त as a measure of energy, for truck classification, or as a colloquial term.
It is derived from the tun, the पद लागू to a barrel of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ), which could weigh around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) और occupy कुछ of space.
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois पाउंड ).
इससे 1965 the uk embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units, including the tonne ( metric ton ), a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use for trade many इकाई और शर्तें, सहित the ton और the term `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the संयुक्त राज्य and formerly Canada a ton is defined to be.
Where confusion is possible, the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is distinguished by its स्पेलिंग, लकिन प्रायः सुनाया the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be सुनाया ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` metric ton '' when it is necessary to make the distinction.
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used, but for many purposes this is not जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और long टन differ by तभी 1.6 %, और the short ton is within 11 % of both.
The ton is the heaviest unit of weight referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is also used to refer to a number of units of आवाज़, ranging इससे in capacity.
It can भी be प्रयुक्त as a ईकाई of उर्जा, expressed as an equivalent of coal burnt, TNT detonated, or in refrigeration, ice melted.
In Britain, ton is used in कठबोली in अनेक contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a cost or a speed, a ton is widely समझा to be £100 or 100 mph.
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship ट्रॉफी awarded annually to the नेशनल हॉकी League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston, then- Governor General of Canada, who awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club, which the entire स्टेनली परिवार समर्थित, साथ the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game.
The पहला कप थी awarded in 1893 to मॉन्ट्रियल hc.
In 1915, the two professional ice hockey organizations, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey संघ ( PCHA ), reached a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup.
After a series of league mergers and folds, the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was स्थापित as the de facto चैंपियनशिप trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947.
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the original bowl of the `` डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती Cup '', the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL has maintained प्रभावी कंट्रोल over both the trophy itself and its associated trademarks.
Nevertheless, the NHL does not actually own the trophy, but instead uses it by अनुबंध साथ the दो trustees of the कप.
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, although the लीग 's सही to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts.
Unlike the ट्राफियां awarded by the other three major professional sports leagues of North America, a new Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned.
It is असामान्य among trophies, in that it has the names of all of the winning players, coaches, management, and club staff engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new band added प्रत्येक साल caused the ट्रॉफी to grow in size, earning the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band barrel which could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing, when the bottom band is full, the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
It has been referred to as The Cup, Lord स्टेनली 's कप, the पावन grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug.
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions, the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the कप by the winning team.
The original कटोरी थी बना of चांदी and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter.
The current Stanley Cup, topped with a copy of the original bowl, is made of a silver and nickel alloy ; it has a height of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
Since the 1914–15 ऋतु, the Cup has been won a combined 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams.
prior to that, the challenge cup was held by nine different teams.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and are currently the last Canadian-based team in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 because of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी, और in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced berries, and the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae family.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of the fruit, possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months.
Pineapple does not ripen significantly post-harvest.
Pineapples are consumed fresh, cooked, juiced, and preserved, and are मिला in a चौड़ी array of cuisines.
In addition to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used to produce the textile रेशा piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल paper and furnishings, amongst other uses.
In computer science, an integer is a datum of अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार, a data type which represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers.
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain ऋणात्मक मान.
Integers are commonly represented in a computer as a समूह of शब्दकोष अंक.
The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer sizes available varies between different types of computers.
Computer hardware nearly always provides a रास्ता to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer.
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a large hydro सुविधा, with an installed capacity of.
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the production of electrical power through the use of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ोर्स of गिरना or बहती water.
It is the सबसे widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years.
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the asia-pacific प्रदेश generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 प्रतिशत of घरेलू विद्युत उपयोग.
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges Dam in China, Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border, and Guri Dam in Venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, making it a competitive source of renewable electricity.
The average cost of electricity from a hydro संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a flexible सोर्स of electricity since plants can be ramped up and down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands.
However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local ecosystems, और building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.
Wine लड़के at a Greek symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of years and is closely intertwined with the history of agriculture, cuisine, सभ्यता और मानवता itself.
पुरातत्व प्रमाण suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in what is now the country of Georgia around 7000 BCE, with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The world 's oldest known winery ( dated to 3000 BCE ) was discovered in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous area of Armenia.
url_http.
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of the grapevine took place during the Early Bronze Age in the Near East, Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE.
Evidence of the earliest wine production in balkans रै महरूम uncovered at archaeological sites in northern Greece ( Macedonia ), dated to 4500 BC.
These same sites also contain remnants of the संसार 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes.
In Egypt, wine became a भाग of अंकित इतिहास, playing an important role in ancient ceremonial life.
Traces of wild wine dating from the second and first millennia bce have also been found in China.
Moroccan wine Kasher label 1930
The Jewish परंपरा और use of kosher wine is dating back to biblical times.
The long history of the use and production of wine throughout ancient Israel is backed up by पुरातत्त्व evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora communities all around the globe, the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / bacchus, थी आम in ancient Greece and Rome, and many of today 's major wine-producing regions of Western Europe were established with Phoenician and, later, Roman plantations.
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of the Roman Empire : many grape varieties and cultivation techniques were known ; the डिज़ाइन of the वाइन दबायें उन्नत ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine.
Rashi, a medieval French रब्बी and called the `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh, earned his living as a vintner.
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export, the Christian Church in medieval Europe also became a firm supporter of wine, necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass. Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures, its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the आसवन of वाइन लिये Islamic medicinal and industrial purposes such as perfume.
Wine production gradually increased, with खपत burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
Wine production survived the विनाशकारी Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually spread to numerous regions throughout the world.
Districts of वेस्ट Bengal
The Indian state of West बंगाल सीमायें साथ नेपाल, भूटान, बांग्लादेश and the Indian states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Sikkim.
The Himalayas lies in the north of the state and the Bay of Bengal is at the दक्षिण.
In between them, the river Ganges flows eastwards and its main distributary, the हुगली नदी, flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal.
The Siliguri Corridor, जिससे connects North-East India with rest of the India, lies in the North Bengal region of the state.
Geographically, West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region, Terai and Doors region, North Bengal plains, Rarh region, Western plateau and ऊँची lands, तटीय मैदान, sunderbans और the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the state of West Bengal was formed with 14 districts, as per partition plan of the तब बंगाल province of British India.
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a ज़िला in 1950, और the former French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to जोड of Purulia district to the state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district.
Later, larger districts such as West Dinajpur, 24 Parganas and Midnapore यहूद bifurcated.
West Bengal is now divided into उन्नीस जिले under three divisions.
Districts are administered by District Magistrates, and divisions are administered by Divisional commissioners.
कोलकाता, the पूंजी of the state, constitutes the Kolkata district.
Other districts are further divided into प्रशासनिक इकाई ऐसे as subdivisions and blocks, administered by SDO and BDO, respectively.
The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier structure in the state.
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat, which is the Panchayat संगठन लिये a collection of villages.
The block-level organizations are called पंचायत samiti, और the district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea, its islands ( some घिरी by the caribbean समुद्र and some bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the गल्फ of Mexico and the North American mainland, east of Central America, and north of South America.
Situated largely on the caribbean Plate, the region comprises more than 700 islands, islets, reefs, and cays.
( See the list. )
These islands generally form island arcs that delineate the eastern and northern किनारे of the caribbean Sea.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ), are part of the somewhat larger West Indies grouping, which also includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the वृहद antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the mainland countries of Belize and Guyana – historically and culturally part of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज – may be included.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of उत्तर अमेरिका और हैं व्यवस्थित into 30 territories including sovereign states, overseas departments, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to may 31, 1962, वहीँ was a short-lived country called the Federation of the West Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories, all of which were then UK dependencies.
The West इंडीज क्रिकेट टोली continues to represent many of those nations.
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 cities in the U.S. state of New Hampshire.
For each town/city, the table lists the county to which it belongs, its date of incorporation, इसके population according to the 2010 census, its form of government, and its principal villages.
Cities are indicated in boldface.
Cities and towns are treated identically under state law.
शहरों हैं just towns whose form of government was changed by a special act of the New Hampshire legislature.
However, towns currently are able to change their form of government by simple voter स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका charter, with several of the more populous towns having already done so.
The main slave रूट in मध्यकालीन Africa.
This article discusses systems, history, and effects of slavery within Africa.
See Arab slave trade, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, Maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` Slave transport in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the interior regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many centuries, and continues in the वर्तमान दिन.
Systems of servitude and गुलामी यहूद आम in अनेक parts of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic स्लेव व्यापार began, many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the परिचय of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices यहूद again रूपांतरित with European colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to throw लिये over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern मिसिसिपी for four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, for the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in लिये injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the तभी खिलाड़ी to win the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass कोशिशें, सबसे करियर interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a quarterback, most career victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise software company headquartered in San फ्रांसिस्को, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Though best known for its customer relationship management ( CRM ) उत्पाद, Salesforce has also expanded into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes magazine, as well as number 27 in Fortunes magazine 's 100 Best कंपनियाँ to कार्य लिये in 2012.
As of April 2013, the company is ranked sixth in providing services in विपणन and customer service automation.
It is listed on the New York Stock एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the S & P 500 index.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' और kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
Earth is the third planet from the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System.
It is also the largest of the सौर System 's four terrestrial planets.
It is sometimes referred to as the world or the Blue Planet.
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion years ago, and life appeared on its surface within its first billion years.
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions, which enabled the proliferation of जीवों as खूब as the गठन of the ozone layer, which together with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
The physical properties of the Earth, as well as its geological history and orbit, have allowed life to persist.
Estimates on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support life range इससे, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into अनेक rigid segments, or tectonic plates, that migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by नमक जल महासागर, with the remainder consisting of continents and islands which together have many lakes and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of the अंटार्कटिक बर्फ sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs.
The planet 's interior remains active, with a solid iron inner core, a liquid outer core that generates the magnetic field, and a thick layer of relatively solid mantle.
Earth gravitationally interacts with other objects in space, विशेषकर the सूर्य और the Moon.
During one orbit around the Sun, the Earth rotates about its own axis 366.26 टाइम्स, बनाना 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane, producing seasonal variations on the planet 's सतह साथ a काल of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ).
The Moon is Earth 's तभी प्राकृतिक satellite.
it began orbiting the Earth about.
The Moon 's gravitational interaction with धरती stimulates समंदर tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is home to millions of species of जीवन, including humans.
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the biosphere contribute resources that are used to support a वैश्विक इंसान population.
These inhabitants are grouped into परिचय 200 independent sovereign states, which interact through diplomacy, travel, trade, and military action.
Human cultures have developed many views of the ग्रह, सहित its personification as a planetary deity, its shape as flat, its position as the center of the universe, and in the modern Gaia Principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the Waite-Smith tarot, who is depicted using the वही टूल्स that modern Wiccans use.
In the neopagan religion of Wicca, a range of जादुई टूल्स are used in ritual practice.
Each of these tools has different uses and एसोसिएशन, और हैं प्रयुक्त primarily to direct magical energies.
They are used at an वेदी, अंदर a magic circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are often divided into personal tools, which are for use by, and owned by, an individual Wiccan, and coven tools, used collectively by the coven.
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the वर्गाकार और compasses ), from which Wicca draws some material, and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
The latter made much use of material from medieval grimoires such as the Key of Solomon, which has many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation.
ठेठ eukaryotic cell.
Cellular श्वसन is the नियत of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is considered an exothermic रेडॉक्स reaction.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones जब it occurs in the body, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble एक जब it occurs in a जीना cell.
This difference is क्युकी it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction, no single reaction कि comprises it is a दहन reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in श्वसन शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids and fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The उर्जा भंडारित in एटीपी ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure आग extinguisher made by Amerex
A अंग्रेजों आग extinguisher with ID sign, call point and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an क्रियाशील आग सुरक्षा device used to extinguish or control small fires, often in emergency situations.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire, such as one which has reached the ceiling, endangers the user ( i.e., no escape route, smoke, explosion hazard, etc. ), or वरना requires the विशेषज्ञता of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure पोत containing an एजेंट जिससे can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in all buildings other than houses, are generally जरूरी to be serviced and inspected by a Fire Protection service company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions require more बारंबार सेवा for fire extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of सेवा performed ( सालाना inspection, recharge, new fire extinguisher ) and when.
There are two main types of fire extinguishers : stored pressure और cartridge-operated.
In stored pressure units, the expellant is भंडारित in the same chamber as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the एजेंट used, different propellants are used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, nitrogen is typically प्रयुक्त ; जल और झाग extinguishers typically use air.
Stored pressure fire extinguishers हैं the most common type.
cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant गैस in a पृथक cartridge that is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is not as common, used primarily in areas such as industrial facilities, where they receive higher-than-average use.
They have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge, allowing an operator to discharge the extinguisher, recharge it, and return to the fire in a उचित राशि of time.
Unlike stored pressure types, these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide instead of नाइट्रोजन, हालांकि नाइट्रोजन कारतूस are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical and dry powder types in the U.S. and in जल, wetting एजेंट, foam, dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C. ), and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), and are hence, easily portable by hand.
Cart-mounted units typically तौल 23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds ).
These wheeled models are most commonly found at construction sites, airport runways, heliports, as खूब as docks और marinas.
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in उत्तर अमेरिका within the boundaries of the present-day continental United States, Alaska, and the island state of Hawaii.
They are composed of numerous, distinct Native American tribes and ethnic groups, many of which survive as intact राजनैतिक समुदायों.
The terms used to refer to Native Americans have महरूम विवादास्पद.
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews, most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ), and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however, this term does not typically शामिल देशी hawaiians or निश्चित अलास्कन natives, ऐसे as aleut, yup'ik, or Inuit peoples.
Since the end of the 15th century, the migration of europeans to the americas, और उनके importation of africans as स्लेव, has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies.
Europeans created most of the early written historical record about Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas.
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer societies and told उनके histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, women carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of staple crops : maize, beans and squash.
The स्वदेशी संस्कृतियों यहूद काफी अलग from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, mostly Christian immigrants from western Eurasia.
Many Native cultures यहूद matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands for use of the entire community, for hunting or agriculture.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had developed concepts of individual property अधिकारों साथ आदर to जमीन कि were extremely different.
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant Europeans, as well as shifting alliances among different nations of each culture through the centuries, caused extensive political tension, ethnic violence and सोशल disruption.
The Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the contact with infectious Eurasian diseases, to which they had no acquired immunity.
Epidemics after European contact caused the greatest loss of life for indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging इससे 1 लाख to 18 million.
After the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the United States of America, President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as साथ the Choctaw, or forced ) became a consistent policy through American administrations.
During the 19th सदी, the ideology of manifest destiny became integral to the American nationalist movement.
Expansion of European-American populations to the west after the American Revolution resulted in increasing pressure on Native American lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, authorizing the सरकारी to relocate देशी अमेरिकी इससे उनके homelands भीतर स्थापित राज्य to lands west of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American expansion.
The first European Americans to एनकाउंटर the पश्चिमी interior tribes were generally fur traders and trappers.
There were also Jesuit missionaries क्रियाशील in the Northern Tier.
As United States expansion पहुँचे into the अमरीकी वेस्ट, settler and miner migrants came into increasing conflict with the Great Basin, Great Plains, and other Western tribes.
These were complex nomadic cultures based on घोड़ा संस्कृति and seasonal bison hunting.
They carried out strong resistance to संयुक्त राज्य incursions in the दशकों बाद the American Civil War, in a series of Indian Wars, which were frequent up until the 1890s, but continued into the 20th century.
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into tribal जमीन in the west.
Over time, the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land cessions by the tribes, and स्थापित रिज़र्वेशन लिये उन्हें in अनेक पश्चिमी राज्य.
u.S. एजेंटों प्रोत्साहित देशी अमेरिकी to अपनाना european-style खेती और समान pursuits, लकिन european-american agricultural प्रौद्योगिकी of the समय थी अपर्याप्त लिये प्रायः शुष्क रिज़र्वेशन lands.
In 1924, Native Americans who were not already U.S. citizens यहूद granted नागरिकता by Congress.
Contemporary Native अमेरिकी have a unique relationship with the United States because they may be members of nations, tribes, or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central America ( ) is the central geographic प्रदेश of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, जिससे connects साथ South America on the southeast.
जब माना भाग of the unified continental model, it is considered a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize, Costa Rica, El साल्वाडोर, ग्वाटेमाला, होंडुरास, निकारागुआ, and Panama.
Central America is part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, which extends from northern Guatemala through सेंट्रल Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the Caribbean Sea to the east, the North Pacific Ocean to the वेस्ट, और कोलंबिया to the south-east.
Central America is an area of, or लगभग 0.1 % of the Earth 's surface.
As of 2009, its जनसांख्यिकी थी estimated at 41,739,000.
It रै a घनत्व of 77 people per square kilometer.
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC and later ABC.
The series follows the lives of employees at the fictional Sacred Heart शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल.
The title is a play on surgical scrubs और a पद लिये a low-ranking person because at the beginning of the series, most of the main characters were medical interns.
The श्रेणी सुविधाएँ fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes presented mostly as the daydreams of the central character, Dr. John `` J.D. ''
Dorian, who is played by zach braff.
Actors starring alongside Braff in the first eight सीज़न शामिल सारा chalke, डोनाल्ड faison, Neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes.
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors, such as ब्रेंडन फ्रेज़र, हीथर ग्राहम, और कोलिन farrell.
In the ninth season, many new cast members were introduced और the दिखाएँ setting moved from a hospital to a medical school.
Out of the original cast, only Braff, Faison and mcginley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों, जबकि the others with the exception of Reyes, made guest appearances.
Braff appeared in six episodes of the नवीं season before departing.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza Coupe, Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series regulars with Bishé becoming the show 's new narrator.
scrubs premiered on October 2, 2001 on NBC.
The series received a Peabody Award in 2006.
During the seventh season, NBC घोषित कि it would not renew the show.
Shortly after the seventh season finale, ABC announced it had picked up the eighth season of the श्रेणी, जिससे began जनवरी 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On May 14, 2010, ABC घोषित it था officially canceled Scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine, used in Netherton at the ironworks of M W Grazebrook.
re-erected on the A38 ( M ) in Birmingham, UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid.
using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back about 2,000 years, but early devices were not practical.
Since the late 1700s भाप इंजन have become a major source of mechanical power.
The first अनुप्रयोग were removing water from mines.
In 1781 James Watt patented a steam engine that produced continuous rotative motion.
These 10 hp engines सक्रिय a wide range of manufacturing machinery to be powered.
The engines could be sited anywhere that water and coal or wood fuel could be प्राप्त.
By 1883, engines that could provide 10,000 hp था become feasible.
Steam engines could also be applied to vehicles such as traction engines and the railway इंजनों जिससे हैं commonly just called steam engines outside America.
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the औद्योगिक Revolution, allowing factories to locate where water power was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the electric power in the United States using a variety of heat sources.
Steam engines are external combustion इंजन, जहाँ the working fluid is separate from the combustion products.
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar power, nuclear power or geothermal उर्जा may be used.
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze this process is पुकारा the rankine cycle.
In the cycle, water is heated into steam in a boiler until it reaches a high pressure.
When expanded through pistons or turbines, mechanical work is done.
The reduced-pressure steam is then condensed and pumped वापस into the boiler.
in सामान्य उपयोग, the पद भाप इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि. ) ऐसे as रेल भाप इंजनों और पोर्टेबल इंजन, or may refer to the पिस्टन or टर्बाइन मशीनरी अलोन, as in the बीम इंजन और stationary भाप इंजन.
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and भाप pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied from a separate boiler.
A mill engine from Stott Park bobbin Mill, Cumbria, England
A steam locomotive in Germany.This class of engine थी निर्मित in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the third official सिंगल इससे rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf.
the single features Mystikal and I-20.
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart, it also reached # 3 on hot रैप ट्रैक्स और # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo Maicol & Manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 रिलीज yakaleo.
The song is also प्रदर्शित in episode 2, Series One of British teen comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also used by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter during his short कार्यावधि in रिंग of सम्मान.
it थी also used for April Hunter in various Independent circuits.
It was featured in the movie ATL starring T.I., and ' Hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the song is played during traffic reports on many radio स्टेशन, प्रायः carrying an urban/hip-hop स्वरूप.
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is featured in the म्यूज़िक वीडियो.
The song has been covered by rock band Start Trouble, on their एल्बम प्रत्येक समाधान Has Its Problem.
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the characters Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the first track of his album All Day, `` Oh No ''.
एलिज़ाबेथ ii ( एलिज़ाबेथ एलेक्जेंड्रा Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories and dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
वो is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in London and educated privately at घर.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, from which time she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake पब्लिक duties during the Second World War, in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has चार children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
Her coronation service took place in 1953 and was the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen प्रमुख संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in her realms, such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the falklands युद्ध, युद्धों साथ Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the हत्या of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
Christianity is the largest धर्म listed by Australians in the national census.
In the 2011 Census, 61.1 % of Australians were listed as Christian.
Australia रै no आधिकारिक राज्य धर्म and the Australian Constitution protects freedom of religion.
The presence of Christianity in Australia began साथ the आगमन of the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788.
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national population at the time of the संघ of ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 1901.
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) remained the largest denomination until 1986, when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia.
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the population have diversified the demographics of religion in Australia.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the यूनानी परंपरागत archdiocese of ऑस्ट्रेलिया and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups, such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church.
The त्यौहार of Easter and Christmas are public holidays in Australia.
Around a quarter of students attend गिरिजाघर स्कूलों और ईसाई organisations are leading non-government providers of health and welfare services through organisations like Catholic Health Australia, Anglicare, UnitingCare Australia, the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society.
Historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev Dr John Dunmore Lang, Saint Mary MacKillop, Catherine Helen Spence, Pastor David Unaipon, the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current CEO of World Vision Australia, Frank Brennan, Jesuit human rights lawyer, Cardinal George Pell, Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane, Kevin Rudd, पूर्व मजदूर प्रधान मंत्री, और टोनी एबॉट, नेता लिये the संघीय विपक्ष Liberal Party.
Charter बनाना कॉलेजिएट School, which became Yale College, October 9, 1701
Yale University is a निजी आइवी लीग research university located in New Haven, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of कनेक्टिकट, the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.
originally चार्टर्ड as the `` कॉलेजिएट स्कूल '', the संस्था traces इसके जड़ें to 17th-century clergymen जो sought to स्थापित a कॉलेज to ट्रैन पादरी और राजनैतिक नेताओ लिये the colony.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale College '' to honor a gift from Elihu Yale, a governor of the अंग्रेजों ईस्ट इण्डिया Company.
In 1861, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S. institution to award the PhD. Yale became a founding member of the Association of American Universities in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the स्थापना of residential colleges : 12 now exist and two more are planned.
Yale employs over 1,100 संकाय to सिखा और सलाह about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and professional students.
Almost all tenured professors teach undergraduate courses, more than 2,000 of which are offered annually.
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion, the second-largest of any अकादमिक संस्था in the world.
Yale 's system of more than two dozen पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 million volumes.
49 Nobel Laureates have been affiliated with the विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी, faculty, and staff.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, including पाँच u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, 19 u.S. परम् Court Justices, and several foreign heads of state.
At the graduate level, Yale Law School, Yale School of Art, and Yale स्कूल of नाटक हैं consistently क्रमित the top programs in their field.
Yale Law School is the सबसे चयनात्मक law school in the United States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale Bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League.
The oldest intercollegiate एथलेटिक event in the United States is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub इससे the परिवार asteraceae, जिससे grows in arid and semi-arid conditions, throughout a range of cold desert, steppe, and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for अनेक सम्बन्धित सदस्यों of the genus Artemisia, such as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ).
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the dominant plants across large portions of the Great Basin, covering कुछ 422,000 वर्गाकार मील in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states.
It is the राज्य flower of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species, such as sage grouse, pronghorn antelope, धूसर vireo, सानो खरगोश, और खच्चर हिरण.
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the intermountain वेस्ट of उत्तर america—especially for preventing infection in wounds, stopping internal bleeding, and treating headaches and colds.
Chemically, the active औषधीय constituents शामिल camphor, terpenoids, and tannins.
Several major threats exist to sage brush ecosystems, including human settlements, परिवर्तन to agricultural land, livestock grazing, invasive plant species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service offered by the American search engine कम्पनी याहू !
It was launched in 1997, and, according to comScore, Yahoo ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012.
Currently, Yahoo ! offers three संस्करण of Yahoo ! Mail.
The traditional `` याहू ! मेल क्लासिक '' continues the availability of the original interface introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 शामिल a नई अजाक्स इंटरफ़ेस, drag-and-drop features, improved search functionality, keyboard shortcuts, address auto-complete, tabs, and other updated features.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a beta version of याहू ! मेल, जिससे शामिल improvements to the design, performance, search functionality, and Facebook integration.
In May 2011, beta परीक्षण लिये the नई संस्करण रोका, and it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail.
In early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in response to heated competition in the free web-mail मार्केट खण्ड.
On June 27, 2009, Yahoo ! मेसेंजर was integrated with Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the county seat of पियर्स काउंटी, वॉशिंगटन, United States.
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound, southwest of Seattle, northeast of the state capital, Olympia, and northwest of माउंट rainier नेशनल पार्क.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the Puget Sound area and the third largest in the state.
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for the South Sound region, which has a population of around 1 लाख people.
Tacoma adopted its नाम बाद the nearby Mount Rainier, originally called Mount Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad in the लेट 19th सदी.
The decision of the railroad was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर, शुरुआत Bay.
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` When rails मिलें sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of Tacoma, a center of international trade on the Pacific Coast and Washington state 's largest port.
Like most central cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the downtown core include the विश्वविद्यालयों of वॉशिंगटन टकोमा ; टकोमा कड़ी, the first modern electric light rail service in the state ; the state 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront, the Thea Foss Waterway.
With a long इतिहास of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the 19th century, to the longshoremen of the 20th century, to the Labor Ready workers of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough, gritty image.
A song about Tacoma, `` Thrice All American '', by अमरीकी singer-songwriter और पूर्व निवासी Neko Case, describes it as `` a dusty old jewel in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down ''.
Tacoma-Pierce काउंटी रै महरूम named one of the most livable areas in the country.
Tacoma was also recently listed as the 19th most walkable नगर in the country.
In कंट्रास्ट, the नगर is also ranked as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, women 's magazine Self नामित टकोमा the `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in the United States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City in America '', in part because of the large diversity of public offices held, and Washington राज्य गुजर a विधेयक in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is famous for the 1940 collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge.
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest नगर in the सैन डिएगो महानगर area, the seventh largest city in Southern California, the fourteenth largest city in the State of California, and the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The population was 243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
स्तिथ बस इससे शहर सैन डिएगो और इससे the मैक्सिकन border in the South Bay region of the metropolitan area, the city is at the center of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States.
Chula Vista is so named because of its दर्शनीय location between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the early 19th century, fast population growth has recently been observed in the city.
As the second largest city in San Diego काउंटी, chula विस्टा रै जल्दी become a destination popular to many tourists.
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United राज्य ओलम्पिक प्रशिक्षण centers और लोकप्रिय tourist destinations include Cricket Wireless Amphitheater, the Chula Vista marina, and the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a प्रणाली or method of describing land, real property ( in contrast to personal property ) or real estate.
The system has been used in England for many centuries, and is still used there in the definition of general सीमाएँ.
By custom, it was applied in the original Thirteen Colonies that became the United States, and in many other land jurisdictions based on English आम law.
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography, along with directions and distances, to define and describe the सीमाएँ of a parcel of land.
The boundaries are described in a running prose style, working around the parcel in sequence, from a point of शुरूआत, returning वापस to the वही पाइंट ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds.
It may include references to other adjoining parcels ( and their owners ), and it, in turn, could भी be referred to in later surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have महरूम चिह्नित on the ground with permanent monuments placed where there were no suitable natural monuments.
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary पारिभाषित by the measurement of each straight run, specified by a distance between the terminal points, and an orientation or direction.
A direction may be a सरल कम्पास bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary वर्णन, ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित watercourse, a stone wall, an adjoining public road way, or an existing building.
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. farms ), and political subdivisions ( e.g. town सीमाएँ ) जहाँ precise definition is not required or would be far too expensive, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and mathematician who is widely regarded as one of the most influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy '' ), first published in 1687, laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics.
Newton also made seminal contributions to optics and shares credit with Gottfried लैबनिट्ज़ लिये the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the physical universe for the next three centuries.
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth and that of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles.
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion from his mathematical description of gravity, Newton removed the last doubts about the वैध of the heliocentric मॉडल of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of colour based on the observation that a prism decomposes श्वेत लाइट into the अनेक रंग of the visible spectrum.
He also formulated an empirical law of cooling and पढ़ाई the गति of sound.
In addition to his work on the calculus, as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series, generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय to non-integer exponents, and developed Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैम्ब्रिज.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and, unusually for a member of the Cambridge faculty, he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England, perhaps because he privately अस्वीकृत the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences, Newton also dedicated much of his time to the पढ़ाई of alchemy और biblical chronology, but most of his work in those areas remained unpublished until long after his death.
In his later life, Newton became अध्यक्ष of the Royal Society.
He also served the British government as वार्डन और निपुण of the Royal Mint.
Prof. Walter Lewin explains Newton 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles all obey न्यूटन 's विधि of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts प्रत्येक अन्य पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is सीधे आंशिक to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them.
( Separately it was shown that large spherically symmetrical masses आकर्षित और हैं आकर्षित as if all their mass were concentrated at their centers. )
This is a general physical law derived from empirical observations by कया Newton called induction.
It is a part of classical mechanics and was प्रतिपादित in न्यूटन 's कार्य philosophiæ naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 July 1687.
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society, Robert Hooke made a claim that Newton had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below. )
In आधुनिक भाषा, the law states the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( N ), m1 and m2 in kilograms ( kg ), r in meters ( m ), and the constant G is approximately equal to.
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the Cavendish प्रयोग conducted by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798, although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G.
This experiment was भी the पहला परीक्षण of Newton 's theory of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years after Newton 's death, so none of Newton 's calculations could use the value of G ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces, which is used to calculate the परिमाण of विद्युत फ़ोर्स between two charged bodies.
दोनो हैं inverse-square कानून, in जिससे फ़ोर्स is inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा between the लाशें.
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses, और the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant.
Newton 's law has since been superseded by आइंस्टीन 's theory of general relativity, but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity.
आपेक्षिकता is जरूरी तभी when there is a need for extreme precision, or when dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects.
White और रेड ध्वज, representing इराकी और अमरीकी deaths, sit in the grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on the Corvallis, Oregon, campus of Oregon State University.
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count प्रदर्शनी इससे 2008 to 2009 ( not related to Iraq Body Count project ), the flags aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War. ''
( May 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning साथ the 2003 आक्रमण of इराकी, और continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the activities of the various armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many forms, and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly.
The table below summarizes various estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures.
For troops in the u.s.-led बहुराष्ट्रीय गठबन्धन, the death toll is carefully tracked and updated daily, and the names and photographs of those killed in action as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A total of 4,486 u.S. सैनिको यहूद मारे in Iraq between 2003 and 2012.
Regarding the Iraqis, however, information on both military and civilian casualties is both less precise and less consistent.
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the झाँकी, इससे officials of शामिल संगठन, and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the news media.
The word `` casualties `` in its most general sense includes the injured as well as the dead.
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is नहीं स्पष्ट कया चाहिए be गिने : चाहिए only those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries caused by accidents गिनती, or चाहिए the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different definitions may arrive at बहुत different numbers, and sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( डकैती of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman थी a चोर and brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by घोड़ा, as compared to a footpad who travelled and robbed on foot.
Mounted robbers were widely considered to be socially श्रेष्ठ to footpads.
Such robbers operated in Great Britain and Ireland इससे the elizabethan era until the early 19th century.
The word highwayman is पहला ज्ञात to be प्रयुक्त in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included `` knights of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road. ''
दो terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen were road agents in some instances for mountain bandits while in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
in the वही time period in Australia, they were known as bushrangers.
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who played point guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball संघ ( NBA ).
After winning championships in high school and college, Johnson was चयनित पहला overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers.
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his रुकी ऋतु, और जीती चार more championships with the Lakers during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV, but returned to play in the 1992 All-Star Game, winning the All-Star MVP Award.
After protests from his fellow players, he retired again for four years, but returned in 1996, at age 36, to play 32 games for the Lakers पहले retiring लिये the third and final time.
Johnson 's career achievements include three NBA MVP Awards, nine NBA Finals दिखावे, बारह all-star खेल, and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists चार times, and is the NBA 's all-time leader in average assists per game, at 11.2.
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream Team ``, the U.S. बास्केट team that won the Olympic gold medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, Johnson formed the Magic Johnson All-Stars, a barnstorming team that travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 महानतम खिलाड़ी in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996, और enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was rated the महानतम NBA point guard of all time by ESPN in 2007.
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird, whom he faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his retirement, Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS prevention and safe sex, as well as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, broadcaster and motivational speaker.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for अनेक सालो, और was part of a group that purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012.
Allium cells in different phases of the कोशिका साईकिल
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and prokaryotes ( सही )
The cell is the basic structural, कार्यात्मक और biological unit of all known living organisms.
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing ( except virus, which consists only from dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन और lipids ), and is often called the building block of life.
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
Organisms can be classified as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a single cell ; including most bacteria ) or multicellular ( including plants and animals ).
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species, Humans contain about 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 and 100 micrometres and therefore are visible only under the microscope.
The cell was खोजा by Robert Hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells, that all cells come from preexisting cells, that vital functions of an organism occur within cells, और कि सब कोशिकाएं contain the खानदानी सूचना जरुरी लिये regulating कोशिका कृत्यों और लिये transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
कोशिकाएं उभरा on ग्रह Earth at least 4.0–4.3 billion years ago.
The word cell comes from the Latin cella, अर्थ `` छोटी रूम ''.
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure थी coined by रॉबर्ट hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in.
grecian सूत्र is a men 's hair coloring product in the United States.
Canada and Europe previously बैन the उत्पाद क्युकी of its use of lead acetate.
A motor scooter 's front with an अव्यवहारिक number and variety of headlamps, added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the front of a vehicle to लाइट the road ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark, despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness.
While it is common for the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal discussion, headlamp is the term for the यंत्र itself, जबकि हेडलाइट properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device.
Other vehicles, such as trains and वायुयान, are required to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps are often used on bicycles, and are required in some jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a battery or a छोटी electrical generator on the wheel.
Additionally ऑटोमोटिव रात्रि vision systems work to supplement headlamps.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies विश्वव्यापी.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in अन्य वे may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader धारणाएं of इंसान अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly संबद्ध साथ धारणाएं of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, The Player, Made in America, How Stella Got Her Groove Back, Girl, बाधित और चूहा Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards for her कार्य in टेलीविज़न.
She was co-producer of the popular game show हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे 1998 to 2004.
She has been the मॉडरेटर of the daytime talk show The View since 2007.
गोल्डबर्ग रै a ग्रैमी, दो दिन Emmys, two Golden Globes, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, four People 's Choice Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is one of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, और टोनी पुरस्कार.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
headquartered in नई यॉर्क नगर, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world, and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports ट्रॉफी in उत्तर अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of operations of its predecessor organization, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The स्वदेश to जिससे the नाम of the लीग originally referred was Canada, although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
Although canadians have historically गठित the बहुमत of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and क्रेन उड़ता.
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the अनुक्रमणिका at all.
In many non-technical texts the term is प्रयुक्त लिये कीट लार्वे in general.
Other sources have coined their own definitions ; for उदाहरण : ``...
The term applies to a grub when all ट्रेस of limbs has disappeared... '' and ``... Applied to the footless larvae of Dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae हैं of चौड़ी महत्व in पारिस्थितिकी और आयुर्विज्ञान ; among other roles, various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.
Herod (, Hordos, Greek :, Hērōdēs ), also known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in Jericho ), was a Roman क्लाएंट king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is वर्णित as `` a madman who murdered his own family and a great many rabbis ``.
He is also known for his colossal building प्रोजेक्ट in जेरूसलम और elsewhere, सहित उसके विस्तार of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of उसके जीवनी are gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius.
the romans बना हेरोदेस 's बेटे, हेरोदेस Archelaus, ethnarch of Judea, Samaria, and Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who then combined Samaria, Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of galilee इससे 4 bce–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens उपस्थित on रेड रक्त कोशिकाएं और IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most important blood type system ( or blood group system ) in human blood transfusion.
the संबद्ध anti-a और anti-b antibodies हैं usually IgM antibodies, which are usually produced in the first years of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as food, bacteria, and viruses.
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals, for example apes such as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on Tuesday ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent city located in and divided by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan.
The area is a suburb of महानगर Detroit.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,970 at the 2010 census.
Most of the city is in ओकलैंड काउंटी, and is surrounded by the city of Novi.
The Wayne County portion is घिरी by Northville Township.
Northville is served by Northville Public Schools.
The city is located northeast of Ann Arbor and उत्तरपश्चिम of डेट्रॉयट.
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2, 1925 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री और vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous स्टेज plays and musicals, feature films, and many television programs.
She is known for उसके प्रदर्शन of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company, her 2001 one-woman show, Elaine Stritch at Liberty, and recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
वो रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये the टोनी पुरस्कार पाँच टाइम्स in विभिन्न श्रेणी.
Stritch is also a three-time एमी पुरस्कार winner.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of young अपराधियों sentenced to work in a community service programme, where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm.
the series opened in 2009 and is currently ongoing.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan Rheon, लॉरेन socha, नाथन stewart-jarrett, और Robert Sheehan are introduced as Alisha Daniels, Simon Bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
Sheehan left after the दूसरी श्रेणी, replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the fourth series was announced rheon, थामस और socha था बाएँ उनके भूमिकाएँ and would be replaced by new characters Karla Crome, Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex respectively.
Midway through the fourth श्रेणी, stewart-jarrett left while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith.
On 19 March 2013, Channel 4 announced at a press event that they have renewed Misfits for a fifth and final श्रेणी containing 8 episodes.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American फ़ुटबॉल quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL इतिहास to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, लिये the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every खेल through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on अगस्त 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
He is the only खिलाड़ी to जीत the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most career interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे करियर victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by उसके उपनाम `` The Gunslinger ''.
The following is a list of notable aircraft hijackings around the world.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, एक can दृश्य वेब पृष्ठों कि may contain text, images, videos, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, सर टिम berners-lee, अभी निदेशक of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and वे सरेआम introduced the project in December of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon, United States, known for his proclivity for opposing his parties ' leadership, and specifically लिये उसके विपक्ष to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Minnesota Law School, Morse moved to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law.
During World War II he was elected to the United States Senate as a Republican ; he became an स्वतंत्र बाद ड्वाइट D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
While an independent, he set a record for performing the दूसरी longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, और was reelected twice while a member of that party.
Morse made a ब्रैड run for the Democratic Party 's presidential nomination in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which authorized the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war.
He continued to speak out against the war in the ensuing years, and lost his 1968 bid for reelection to Bob Packwood, जो criticized उसके दमदार विपक्ष to the war.
Morse made two more bids for reelection to the सीनेट before his death in 1974.
In parliamentary procedure, a गति to तालिका रै two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to table usually means the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the table or to move for postponement of consideration ; a proposal to suspend consideration of a pending motion.
Much less often, it अर्थात् a गति to `` put on the तालिका '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom, to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the तालिका ( or to मूव to प्लेस on the तालिका ) : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to झूठ on the तालिका.
The difference is the idea of कया the table is for, that of a shelf off to the side, or an active work bench.
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench, with the topic being the बीच of ध्यान, माना और discussed by all until it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf, archive, or long-term भंडार यंत्र, जहाँ the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 is a 2010 अमरीकी 3d कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड comedy-drama थाना फिल्मी, और the तीसरा किश्त in the खिलौना स्टोरी श्रेणी.
It was produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt डिज़्नी तस्वीरें.
Directed by Lee Unkrich, the film was released विश्वव्यापी इससे June through October in Disney Digital 3-D, RealD, and IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released theatrically with Dolby Surround 7.1 sound.
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt, while Unkrich लिखा the स्टोरी साथ साथ John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton, respectively director and co-writer of the two first films.
The plot focuses on the toys वुडी, बज़ lightyear, और उनके मित्रों dealing with an uncertain future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don rickles, estelle हैरिस, जॉन ratzenberger, Wallace Shawn, Jeff Pidgeon, Jodi Benson, R. Lee Ermey, John Morris, and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, who played Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy, both died before production began on खिलौना स्टोरी 3.
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by ब्लेक क्लार्क ( a friend of Varney ), while Ranft 's characters and various others were written out of the story.
New characters include performances by ned beatty, टिमोथी डाल्टन, क्रिस्टन schaal, bonnie हंट, whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North American gross for an animated film unadjusted for inflation, and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar film, as well as the highest-grossing opening वीकेंड लिये a फिल्मी to have opened in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, both in the United States और कनाडा, and worldwide.
In early August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing Finding nemo ), और the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; बाद कि माह, खिलौना Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy Awards, सहित बेहतरीन चित्र, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Sound Editing.
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty और the जानवर और up ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture.
It won the awards for बेहतरीन Animated Feature and Best Original Song.
John Levell Starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an American retired पेशेवर बास्केट shooting guard.
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190 पाउंड दौरान उसके एनबीए playing career.
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four colleges in his native Oklahoma, including Oklahoma State University, he gained कीर्ति जबकि playing लिये the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी card format for use in portable devices, such as mobile phones, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure डिजिटल standard is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
sd technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital स्वरूप शामिल चार card families available in three different form factors.
The चार परिवारों हैं the असली standard-capacity ( sdsc ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors are the असली आकार, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of रूप कारकों and device families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards, but this आलेख explains अनेक factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer greater capacity than the मेजबान device can handle.
A newer card may use a file system the host device can not navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the host device be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The organization of the कार्ड थी changed starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the SDA had मानकीकृत a विधि of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ and assure users of compatibility.
ह्यूज John Mungo Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a British actor and film producer.
He has received a सुनहरी Globe, a BAFTA, and an Honorary César.
His films have अर्जित more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25 theatrical releases worldwide.
Grant achieved international stardom after appearing in Richard Curtis 's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this breakthrough role as a frequent cinematic persona during the 1990s, delivering कॉमिक प्रदर्शन in मुख्यधारा films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st century, he had established himself as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), परिचय a लड़के ( 2002 ), प्रेम दरअसल ( 2003 ), and American Dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later played against type with अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches his roles like a character actor, and कोशिशें to मेक उसके एक्टिंग appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed संवाद डिलीवरी और फेशियल expressions.
The entertainment media 's coverage of ग्रान्ट 's जीवन बंद the बिग screen has often overshadowed his work as a thespian.
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession of acting, and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, ग्रान्ट रै repeatedly claimed that acting is not a true calling but just a job he fell into.
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 bc – 220 AD ) was an imperial dynasty of China, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the विद्रोही leader Liu Bang, known posthumously as Emperor Gaozu of Han.
It was briefly interrupted by the Xin Dynasty ( 9–23 AD ) of the पूर्व रीजेंट Wang Mang.
This interregnum separates the Han into दो अवधि : the Western Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over four centuries, the period of the हान राजवंश is माना a golden age in Chinese history.
To this day, China 's majority ethnic group refers to itself as the `` हान लोगों '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The Han Empire was divided into areas सीधे नियंत्रित by the central government, known as commanderies, and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms gradually खोया सब vestiges of their independence, particularly following the Rebellion of the Seven States.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic कनफेडरेशन जिससे dominated the eastern Eurasian Steppe, defeated the Han army in battle in 200 BC.
Following the defeat, a political marriage alliance was negotiated in which the Han became the de facto अवर संगी.
When, despite the सन्धि, the Xiongnu continued to raid Han borders, Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them.
The परम हान विजय in ये wars eventually forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries.
These campaigns expanded Han प्रभुता into the tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network known as the Silk Road, which reached as far as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into दो स्पर्धा राष्ट्र, the Southern and Northern Xiongnu, and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories north of हान 's सीमायें यहूद quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 AD, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics, engaging in violent power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers, causing the हान 's परम downfall.
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist धार्मिक समाजों which instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ), the palace eunuchs suffered होलसेल नरसंहार by military officers, allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire.
When Cao Pi, King of Wei, usurped the throne from Emperor Xian, the Han राजवंश ceased to exist.
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy first established during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 bc remained the मानक coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ).
To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories, the सरकारी nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed दौरान the पूर्वी Han period, and the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs.
The emperor was at the pinnacle of Han समाज.
He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the nobility and appointed ministers who came largely इससे the scholarly gentry class.
From the शासनकाल of Emperor Wu onward, the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu.
This नीति endured until the fall of the Qing Dynasty in 1911 AD.
Science और प्रौद्योगिकी दौरान the हान काल देखी significant अग्रिम, सहित papermaking, the nautical परिचालन अरित्र, the उपयोग of ऋणात्मक संख्याएँ in गणित, the raised-relief मैप, the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary गोला लिये खगोलशास्त्र, और a भूकम्पमापी employing an उलट लोलक.
Tourette सिंड्रोम ( also called Tourette 's syndrome, Tourette 's disorder, Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, GTS or, more commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically wax and wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is defined as part of a spectrum of tic विकार, जिससे शामिल transient and chronic tics.
Tourette 's थी एकबार माना a विरल और विचित्र सिंड्रोम, most often associated with the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ), but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition, but it is not always correctly identified because most cases are mild and the severity of tics decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient and chronic tics in school-age children is उच्चतर, with the more common tics of eye blinking, coughing, throat clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, और tourette 's does not adversely affect intelligence or life expectancy.
Genetic and environmental factors play a role in the etiology of Tourette 's, but the exact causes are unknown.
In most मामले, medication is unnecessary.
There is no effective treatment for every case of tics, but certain medications and therapies can help when their use is warranted.
Education is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of कोई उपचार योजना, and explanation and reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment.
comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of Tourette 's, hence it is महत्वपूर्ण to correctly पहचानो comorbid conditions and treat them.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of उसके निवासी, जॉर्जेस Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a French physician and neurologist, who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885.
सनबीम badge.
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton, इंग्लैण्ड, in 1888.
The company first made bicycles, then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936, and applied the marque to all तीन फ़ॉर्म of परिवहन.
The company also manufactured aero इंजन in the First World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War.
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a ग्रैंड प्रिक्स रेस, और set a number of land speed records.
The company went into receivership in 1935 and was purchased by the Rootes Group, which continued to use the Sunbeam marque.
Fox News Channel ( FNC ), also known as Fox News, is a cable news channel owned by the Fox Entertainment Group, a subsidiary of न्यूज निगम.
As of April 2009, the channel was available to 102 million households in the United राज्य और to दर्शक internationally, broadcasting primarily from its New York studios.
The चैनल थी निर्मित by Australian-American media mogul Rupert Murdoch, who hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
It launched on October 7, 1996 to 17 लाख केबल subscribers.
It grew during the लेट 1990s और 2000s to become the dominant cable news network in the United States.
Critics have stated that Fox News चैनल promotes रूढ़िवादी political positions and biased reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, and reporters at Fox News Channel have responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और राजनैतिक commentary operate independently of each other, and have denied any bias in news reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the दाँत स्तिथ distally ( दूर from the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) arch of the mouth, and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars and the ऊर्ध्वहनु 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The function of this molar is similar to that of all molars in लिहाज़ to पीस होने the principal action during mastication, commonly known as chewing.
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular पहला molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ), two lingual ( side nearest the tongue ), and one distal.
There are great differences between the पतझड़ी ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular molars, even though their function are similar.
The permanent mandibular molars are नहीं माना to have any teeth that precede it.
Despite being named molars, the deciduous molars are followed by permanent premolars.
In the universal system of notation, the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a letter लिखा in uppercase.
The right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` S '', and the left one is known as `` L ''.
The international संकेतन रै a different system of notation.
Thus, the right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` 84 '', and the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal system of notation, the permanent mandibular पहला molars हैं designated by a number.
The right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 30 '', and the left one is ज्ञात as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer notation uses a number in conjunction with a symbol designating in जिससे quadrant the tooth is found.
For this tooth, the left and right first molars would have the वही क्रमांक, `` 6 '', लकिन the right one would have the symbol, `` ┐ '', over it, while the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a different numbering system than the previous two, and the right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '', and the left one is known as `` 36 ''.
Mandibular primary first molars usually have four pulp horns.
the पहला molar is usually the first permanent tooth to erupt and has adult undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and cheek ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline और जीभ ), distolingual ( dl, दूर इससे midline और towards tongue ), distobuccal ( DB, away from midline and toward cheek ), and distal ( D, away from midline ), listed in order of decreasing size.
Listed in अनुक्रम of अवरोहण height they are : ML, DL, DF, MF, and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child.
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( पाँच तरफा ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual, with the sides being the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, and the distobuccal surface.
The occlusal सतह has four grooves.
The central groove is not straight but runs down the बीच of the दाँत mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
The distobuccal groove रनों इससे the distal गड्ढे in the central groove distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps.
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the central pits in the central groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps समाप्ति in the buccal pit.
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account for the locations of the buccal और lingual grooves ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal view ), दो जड़ें हैं present.
The distal root is generally straighter, although both often have a slight distal curvature.
The हाइट्स of रुपरेखा on the mesial and distal contact the adjacent teeth and are located at the junction of the occlusal and middle thirds of the crown.
The Florida Legislature is the two घरों कि अधिनियम as the state legislature of the U.S. state of Florida.
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power of the state shall be vested in a विधानमंडल of the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives.
The legislature is seated at the Florida State कैपिटल in tallahassee.
Stained glass depiction of Daniel interceding साथ arioch, the किंग 's guard.
arioch था महरूम charged with killing all the wise men after they were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the second chapter of the Book of Daniel in the यहूदी बाइबल.
The chapter 's source टेक्स्ट is predominantly written in Aramaic.
According to the टेक्स्ट, Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon who is troubled by his dreams.
He demands an interpretation for his dreams or will have उसके रहस्यवादी interpreters executed.
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the king 's dreams और गुणगान परमेश्वर साथ a short psalm.
God gives Daniel a vision in the night to reveal the king 's सपना.
Able to satisfy the king, Daniel is promoted over the whole province of Babylon.
One comcast बीच, the headquarters of Comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
The old Comcast logo from 1969 to 1999, when it was replaced साथ the crescent logo.
the comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment, information and communications products and services.
it is the largest केबल ऑपरेटर, एक of the biggest द्रव्यमान मीडिया, घर अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता, और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य, providing केबल टेलीविज़न, ब्रॉडबैंड अंतरजाल, टेलीफोन सेवा और in कुछ क्षेत्रों घर सुरक्षा ( सहित burglar सचेतक, निगरानी कैमरे, आग सचेतक प्रणालियों और घर स्वचालन ) to दोनो आवासीय और वाणिज्यिक ग्राहक in 40 राज्य और the District of Columbia.
The company is headquartered in Philadelphia, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % बहुमत हिस्सेदारी in मीडिया संगुटिका NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011, and began the process of purchasing the remaining 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It completed the खरीदें on March 19, 2013.
comcast भी रै significant पकड़कर in अनेक केबल संजाल ( सहित e !
Entertainment Television, Style Network, G4, the Golf चैनल और एनबीसी खेल संजाल ), वितरण ( ThePlatform ), and related businesses.
Comcast has been the subject of आलोचना for activities including its stance on net neutrality, as well as poor results on customer satisfaction surveys.
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of शार्प कांटे, or quills, कि बचाव and camouflage them from predators.
They are indigenous to the americas, southern Asia, and Africa.
Porcupines are the third largest of the rodents, behind the capybara and the beaver.
Most porcupines are about long, साथ an long tail.
Weighing, they are rounded, large और slow.
porcupines आइये in विभिन्न शेड्स of भूरा, धूसर, और the असामान्य श्वेत.
Porcupines ' spiny सुरक्षा resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas.
The common porcupine is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, twigs and green plants like skunk गोभी और क्लोवर और in the winter it may eat bark.
the North American porcupine often climbs trees to find food.
The African porcupine is नहीं a climber and forages on the ground.
It is ज़्यादातर nocturnal, लकिन will sometimes forage for food in the day.
Porcupines have become a pest in कीनिया और हैं खाया as a delicacy.
The name porcupine comes from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ).
A क्षेत्रीय American name for the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 for सुधार in lubricators लिये Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2, 1844 – October 10, 1929 ) was a black Canadian-American आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर, जो थी notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born free in Canada, he returned as a five-year-old child with his family to the United States in 1847, where he lived लिये the बाकी of उसके life and became a US citizen.
Honda FCX Clarity, a हाइड्रोजन ईंधन कोशिका demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle कि उपयोग हाइड्रोजन as its onboard fuel for motive power.
Hydrogen वाहनों शामिल हाइड्रोजन fueled space rockets, as well as automobiles and other transportation vehicles.
The power plants of such vehicles बदलें the रासायनिक उर्जा of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical energy either by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine, or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors.
फैली उपयोग of हाइड्रोजन लिये fueling transportation is a key element of a proposed hydrogen economy.
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on धरती and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an energy carrier.
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels, but it can be produced using sources ( such as wind, solar, or नाभिकीय ) कि are intermittent, too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants, using electrolysis of water, are exploring technologies to deliver costs low enough, and quantities great पर्याप्त, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the potential of hydrogen energy for mobile uses.
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that, if hydrogen is prepared without using fossil fuel inputs, vehicle propulsion would not contribute to कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड emissions.
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost, low energy content per unit volume, high tankage weights, very high storage vessel pressures, the storage, transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in vehicles, the large investment in infrastructure that would be required to fuel vehicles, and the inefficiency of production processes.
sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the अमरीकी नदी in the उत्तरी portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which शामिल seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the चौथी largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद Los Angeles Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a नगर through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter, Sr., his son John Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's फोर्ट, जिससे was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a commercial and agricultural center, and a terminus लिये wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly known as sacramento राज्य or सैक राज्य, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
Drexel University Sacramento is located in Downtown, sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the ओक पार्क पड़ोस.
In addition, the विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Davis is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
The Apple Store is a chain of retail stores owned and operated by Apple Inc., dealing in computers and उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स.
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers, software, iPods, iPads, iPhones, third-party accessories, और अन्य उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स such as Apple TV.
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio for training with Apple products ; all stores offer a Genius बार लिये technical support and repairs, as well as free workshops available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson, the former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations, the Apple Stores have, according to an आलेख in the नई York Times, been responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide, with global sales of billion in merchandise in 2011, and they lead the United States retail market in शर्तें of बिक्री प्रति ईकाई क्षेत्रफल.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor, best ज्ञात as the co-founder, chairman, and CEO of Apple Inc.
through ठहराना, he थी widely पहचाना as a charismatic पायोनियर of the personal computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a सदस्य of the फलक of निर्देशकों of The Walt Disney Company in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven graphical user interface, which led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and, one year later, the Macintosh.
He also played a role in introducing the LaserWriter, one of the first widely उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र मुद्रक, to the market.
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985, Jobs left Apple and founded NeXT, a computer platform development company specializing in the higher-education और कारोबार markets.
In 1986, he acquired the कंप्यूटर ग्राफिक्स division of Lucasfilm, which was spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in खिलौना Story ( 1995 ) as an executive producer.
He served as CEO and majority shareholder until Disney 's purchase of पिक्चर्स in 2006.
In 1996, after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system, Copland, Gil Amelio turned to NeXT Computer, and the nextstep मंच became the न्यास for the Mac OS X.
Jobs returned to Apple as an advisor, and took control of the company as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought ठहराना from near bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
As the new CEO of the company, Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac, iTunes, iPod, iPhone, and iPad, and on the services side, the company 's ठहराना खुदरा स्टोर्स, itunes स्टोर and the App Store.
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns, and propelled Apple to become the world 's most valuable publicly traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the company is regarded by many commentators as एक of the महानतम turnarounds in business history.
In 2003, Jobs was diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a hormone imbalance, underwent a liver transplant in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On medical leave for most of 2011, Jobs resigned in August that year, और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic ट्यूमर on October 5, 2011.
Jobs received a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the प्रौद्योगिकी and music industries.
He has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` दूरदर्शी '', और रै महरूम described as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '', a `` master of innovation '', and a `` design perfectionist ''.
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of the Colosseum, साथ numerals still visible
रोमन numerals, the numeric system in ancient Rome, uses combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values.
The numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और.
The Roman numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals continued after the मनाही of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual, and the उपयोग of रोमन numerals in कुछ नाबालिग अनुप्रयोग continues to this day.
Effective Nuclear चार्ज Diagram
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive charge experienced by an electron in a multi-electron अणु.
The term `` effective '' is used because the shielding effect of negatively charged electrons prevents उच्चतर orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nuclear चार्ज अनुभवी by the outer shell electron is also called the core charge.
It is संभावित to determine the शक्ति of the nuclear charge by looking at the oxidation number of the atom.
This is a सूची of एपीसोड from the Discovery Channel series, Storm Chasers.
A rural stretch of i-5, साथ दो lanes in each direction separated by a large grassy median, and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly known as the Interstate Highway System, Interstate Freeway System, Interstate System, or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States.
The system is named for अध्यक्ष Dwight D. Eisenhower, who championed its formation.
Construction was authorized by the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, और the असली portion was completed 35 years later.
The network has since been extended, and, it had a total length of, making it the world 's second longest after China 's., about one-quarter of all vehicle miles driven in the देश उपयोग the अंतरराज्यीय system.
The cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in 2006 डॉलर ), बनाना it the `` largest पब्लिक works program since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the संयुक्त राज्य into a संसार economic superpower and a highly industrialized nation.
.eu is the country code top-level domain ( ccTLD ) for the European Union ( EU ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domain is available for organisations in and निवासियों of EU member states.
The TLD is administered by EURid, a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of Belgium, Sweden, and Italy, joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic.
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations through a सूर्योदय काल, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
Full पंजीकरण started on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in German ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
in खेल, Meister is used for the current national, European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern day जर्मनी पुलिस शक्तियां use the title Meister.
During the Second World युद्ध, meister थी the highest enlisted rank of the Ordnungspolizei.
meister has been borrowed into English slang, where it is used in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in his व्यवसायिक, business, or some other kind of work or activity.
For example, a “puzzle-meister” would be someone highly skilled at solving पहेलियाँ.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example, “stubble-meister” for someone with a short, neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's टेलीविज़न श्रेणी about teenagers with super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise, Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger.
Both the दिखाएँ और इसके सम्बन्धित merchandise देखी unbridled overnight success, becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months.
Under the original name, `` Mighty Morphin शक्ति रेंजरों '' the series ran from 1993 to 1995 and spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie.
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and elements from the Super Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger क्रमशः, हालांकि the zyuranger वेशभूषा यहूद स्टिल used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha और the kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from Dairanger for the second season, while only the mecha from Kakuranger were featured in the third season.
however the kakuranger वेशभूषा were later used for the title characters of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers.
The series was produced by mmpr Productions, distributed by Saban Entertainment, and aired on Fox Kids.
The show 's merchandise थी produced and distributed by Bandai Entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers franchise ; renaming the series every year after, and using costumes, props, और footage from subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as changing the cast and storyline.
While an overarching storyline would continue until Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, subsequent श्रेणी after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
in 2010, a re-version of mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों, साथ a नई लोगो, कॉमिक book-referenced ग्राफिक्स, और अतिरिक्त वैकल्पिक खास प्रभाव, थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी बच्चे, और बंदाई उत्पादित ब्रांड नई खिलौने to coincide साथ the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born एडगर पो ; जनवरी 19, 1809 – अक्तूबर 7, 1849 ) थी an अमरीकी author, poet, editor and literary critic, considered part of the American Romantic Movement.
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre, Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre.
He is further credited साथ contributing to the emerging genre of science fiction.
He was the first well-known American लेखक to try to earn a living through writing alone, resulting in a financially difficult life and career.
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when his mother died shortly after his father abandoned the family.
Poe was लिया in by जॉन and Frances Allan, of Richmond, Virginia, but they never formally adopted him.
He attended the University of Virginia for one semester लकिन बाएँ due to lack of money.
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at West Point, Poe parted ways with the Allans.
His publishing career began humbly, with an anonymous collection of poems, Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a Bostonian ''.
Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the अगला अनेक सालो working लिये साहित्यिक जर्नल्स and periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism.
His work forced him to move among several cities, including Baltimore, फिलाडेल्फिया, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he शादीशुदा Virginia Clemm, his 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe published his poem, `` the रेवेन ``, to instant success.
His wife died of tuberculosis two years after its publication.
He began planning to produce his own journal, The Penn ( later renamed The स्टाइलस ), हालांकि he died पहले it could be produced.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, पो died in बाल्टीमोर ; the कारण of उसके मौत is अनजान and has been variously attributed to alcohol, brain congestion, cholera, drugs, heart disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world, as well as in specialized fields, such as cosmology and cryptography.
Poe and his work appear throughout popular culture in साहित्य, म्यूज़िक, films, and television.
A number of his homes are समर्पित museums today.
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award known as the एडगर पुरस्कार for distinguished work in the mystery genre.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they require up to seven kilograms ( 15 पाउंड ) of मांस प्रति दिन.
A major घटक of their diet is the flesh of large mammals, like this African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare meaning 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव कि गर्भाशयी इसके उर्जा और nutrient आवश्यकताएँ from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient आवश्यकताएँ हैं माना carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food, and apart from the more general definition, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore that sits at the top of the foodchain is an apex परभक्षी.
Plants that capture and digest insects are पुकारा मांसाहारी plants.
Similarly, fungi that capture microscopic पशु are often called carnivorous fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
the वर्तमान champions are Spain, who won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight अलग नेशनल teams.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the only टोली to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The संसार कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
नायक is an American science fiction television drama series created by Tim Kring that appeared on NBC for four seasons from September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The series tells the stories of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities, and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives.
the श्रेणी emulates the aesthetic स्टाइल और storytelling of अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे, using multi-episode स्टोरी arcs कि निर्माण upon a larger, अधिक encompassing चाप.
The series was उत्पादित by Tailwind Productions in association with Universal Media Studios.
It was filmed primarily in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Four complete सीज़न aired, ending on February 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the United States, receiving the उच्चतम rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years.
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S., and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season.
नायक रै अर्जित a number of awards and nominations, including Primetime Emmy Awards, Golden Globes, People 's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards.
An online extension of the series, Heroes 360 Experience, बाद rebranded as Heroes Evolutions, was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology.
Other official Heroes media include मैगज़ीन, action figures, tie-in and interactive websites, a mobile game, a novel, clothing and other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, NBC Digital entertainment released a श्रेणी of ऑनलाइन सामग्री लिये the summer, including more original web content, wireless iTV interactivity, graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes.
NBC घोषित नायक cancellation on May 14, 2010.
Afterward, the network considered making a television special event to conclude the श्रेणी ; however, on सितंबर 9, 2010, NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise.
Tim Kring then सुझाया कि the व्यापक आधार of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to return for fans, but he did not specify when or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, TV Line reported कि MSN was in talks to revive the series with a new cast.
John pierpont `` J. P. ''
मॉर्गन ( अप्रैल 17, 1837 – March 31, 1913 ) was an American financier, banker, philanthropist and art collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation during his time.
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक and Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form General Electric.
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company, he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company and several other steel and iron businesses, including Consolidated स्टील और तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by William Edenborn, to form the United States Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in Rome, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving his fortune and business to his son, John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan, Jr., and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York.
at the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s, he and his partners had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He directed the banking coalition that stopped the Panic of 1907.
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era, and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform American business.
This is a list of एपीसोड of the television series.
The एपीसोड were directed by Shigeru Ueda and produced by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee which included Xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi, an immortal private investigator, as she explores the secrets of modern and near-future world and the supernatural events that surround the fictional समाज of immortals like herself.
There are large time gaps in the internal chronology between the पहला five episodes, ranging from one to thirty years.
The six episodes were ब्रॉडकास्ट मासिक on AT-X channel in Japan, between February 3 and July 6, 2008.
Each episode is 45 मिनट्स long.
Two pieces of theme music हैं प्रयुक्त लिये the एपीसोड : the opening theme `` Alsatia '' and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed and performed by the Japanese metal band Galneryus.
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the AT-X network it originally aired on.
Aerial photo of FLETC, where US digital forensics standards यहूद विकसित in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic विज्ञान encompassing the recovery and investigation of material found in digital devices, often in relation to computer crime.
The term digital forensics was originally used as a synonym for computer forensics but has विस्तारित to कवर छानबीन of सब डिवाइस सक्षम of storing digital data.
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s, the अनुशासन evolved in a haphazard manner during the 1990s, and it was not until the early 21st century that national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a variety of अनुप्रयोग.
The most common is to support or refute a hypothesis before criminal or civil ( as part of the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्कवरी process ) courts.
Forensics may also feature in the private sector ; such as during internal corporate investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches, relating to the type of digital devices involved ; computer forensics, network forensics, forensic आंकड़ा विश्लेषण और मोबाईल device forensics.
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic imaging ( acquisition ) and विश्लेषण of डिजिटल मीडिया और the उत्पादन of a report into collected evidence.
As well as identifying सीधा प्रमाण of a अपराधों, digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific suspects, confirm alibis or statements, determine intent, identify sources ( for example, in copyright cases ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual उद्देश्य is to provide answers to a series of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses.
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces.
A color model is an abstract mathematical मॉडल describing the रास्ता रंगों can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are color models ).
However, a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less arbitrary color system with no connection to any globally understood system of color interpretation.
Adding a certain mapping function between the color model and a certain reference color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color space.
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in combination with the रंग मॉडल, defines a new color space.
For example, Adobe RGB and sRGB are two different निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेसेस, दोनो based on the RGB model.
In the most generic sense of the definition above, color स्पेसेस can be पारिभाषित बगैर the use of a color model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in effect a given set of names or numbers which are defined by the existence of a corresponding set of physical color swatches.
This article focuses on the गणितीय model concept.
Labor Day is an American संघीय अवकाश observed on the first Monday in September, that celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers.
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( बीमे नीति holder ) and an insurer, where the insurer promises to pay a designated beneficiary a sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, other events such as terminal illness or critical illness may भी trigger payment.
The नीति होल्डर typically pays a premium, either regularly or as a lump sum.
Other expenses ( such as funeral expenses ) are also sometimes शामिल in the benefits.
Life नीतियों हैं विधिक अनुबंध and the terms of the contract describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the अनुबंध to limit the liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims relating to suicide, fraud, war, riot and civil commotion.
Life-based अनुबंध tend to पतन into two major categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a benefit in the event of specified event, typically a lump योग भुगतान.
A common form of इस design is term insurance.
Investment policies – where the main objective is to सुकर the विकास of capital by regular or single premiums.
Common forms ( in the us ) हैं whole life, universal life and variable life policies.
{ { infobox Holiday
Chinese नई साल
9 – 12 February ( Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in yorba लिंडा, नारंगी काउंटी, California ) is an American actress, also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture.
kapture began her career in films, most of which were not huge commercial successes.
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver, 1st & Ten, and as a प्रतियोगी on the $ 100,000 पिरामिड ) before she gained international exposure with her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the other हाफ of the दो `` sams '' for almost 5 years, cemented her popularity.
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo, Kapture gained global recognition along with her costar since the show was broadcast in अनेक देशों.
Sergeant Lance eventually became Lieutenant Lance by the time Kapture left the श्रेणी in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time with the श्रेणी, kapture briefly sat in the director 's chair, for two episodes.
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings Season 1 DVD which was distributed by लंगर खाड़ी entertainment and released in September 2004.
बाद a छोटी अंतराल इससे the स्क्रीन following उसके निकास इससे रेशा stalkings, kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी स्क्रीन और यूएसए संजाल.
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies, Perfect अपराधों ( आधारित on a सच्चा स्टोरी, भी called Hide and Seek : The Joanne Jensen Story ), which also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard.
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and theatre प्रोडक्शन्स और था अनेक टेलीविज़न guest appearances.
Kapture also had a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on बेवाच as Alexis Ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless from 2002 through 2004, where she was credited as mitzi kapture donahue, और स्ट्रक्चर in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
उसके latest is a supporting role in God 's Ears, released in 2007.
kapture is the official celebrity spokesperson for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society.
The Xbox 360 is the second वीडियो खेल कंसोल विकसित by and produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes with Sony 's PlayStation 3 and निन्टेंडो 's वी as भाग of the सातवाँ generation of video game consoles.
As of September 30, 2012, 70 million Xbox 360 consoles have been sold worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially अनावरण on MTV on May 12, 2005, with detailed launch and game information divulged later that month at the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ).
The console sold out completely upon रिलीज in सब regions except in Japan.
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade games, game demos, trailers, TV shows, म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ Media Center multimedia capabilities.
The Xbox Live also offers access to various ( often region-specific ) third-party मीडिया स्ट्रीमिंग applications.
At their E3 presentation on June 14, 2010, Microsoft announced a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 that would ship on the same day.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, TOSLINK S/PDIF optical audio output, five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older संस्करण ) और a खास aux port.
Older models of the Xbox 360 have चूंकि been discontinued.
The first new console to be released features a 250 GB hard drive, while a later, कम expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage.
backpack may also refer to a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
A आधुनिक backpack
स्विस फौज backpack ca. 1960
Integrated bearer फ़्रेम.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, pack ) is, in its simplest form, a cloth sack carried on one 's वापस और secured साथ दो straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on only one shoulder strap.
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of equipment, because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights लिये long अवधि of time in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ), usually offload the largest part ( up to about 90 % ) of their weight onto padded hip belts, leaving the कंधे straps मुख्यतः लिये stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the hips are stronger than the shoulders, and also increases चपलता और संतुलन, चूंकि the लोड यात्राएँ nearer the wearer 's own center of mass.
In ancient times, the backpack was used as a means to carry the hunter 's larger game and other types of prey and as a रास्ता of easier हस्तांतरण लिये अन्य सामग्री.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters would dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal around, प्रत्येक एक पैकिंग the मांस into अनेक wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs.
The bag itself थी बना up of अलग एनिमल छुपा और स्किन ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) and sewn together by the intestines of said animals, which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the United Mexican States ( ), is a संघीय संवैधानिक republic in North America.
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by ग्वाटेमाला, बेलीज़, और the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( over 760,000 sq mi ), मैक्सिको is the fifth largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world.
साथ an अनुमानित population of over 113 million, it is the world 's eleventh most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District, the पूंजी city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec, the Toltec, the Teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the Maya और the Aztec before first contact with Europeans.
In 1521, स्पेन conquered and colonized the territory from its base in México-Tenochtitlan, which was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory would eventually become Mexico following मान्यता of the उपनिवेश 's independence in 1821.
The post-independence period was characterized by economic instability, the mexican-american War and territorial cession to the United States, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, which culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the country 's current political system.
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first time that an opposition party won the presidency from the संस्थागत क्रांतिकारी पार्टी.
Since 2006 the country has been in the midst of a drug war which has caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico has one of the world 's largest economies, and is माना दोनो a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति and middle power.
In addition, Mexico was the first Latin American member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since 1994 ), and considered an upper-middle आय देश by the World Bank.
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized देश और an उभरते power.
It has the fourteenth largest नाममात्र जीडीपी and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of its उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) partners, especially the United States of America.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites with 31, and in 2007 was the tenth most visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals per year.
Babe Ruth holds the MLB career slugging प्रतिशत record (.690 ).
In baseball statistics, slugging percentage ( abbreviated SLG ) is a popular measure of the power of a hitter.
It is गणना as कुल bases divided by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a given player, and 1B, 2B, 3B, and HR are the number of singles, doubles, तिगुना, और घर रनों, respectively.
Walks are specifically excluded from this गणना.
For example, in 1920, Babe Ruth played his first ऋतु लिये the नई York Yankees.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 doubles, 9 triples, and 54 home runs, जिससे brings the कुल आधार count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His कुल number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, his slugging percentage for the season.
The next year he slugged.846, and these records went unbroken जबतक 2001, जब बैरी bonds हासिल 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square ( now Square Enix ) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game, Masato Kato wrote most of the plot, while composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's स्टोरी फ़ॉलो a समूह of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe.
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan for Sony 's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on नवम्बर 25, 2008, in उत्तर अमेरिका और जापानी, और गई on बिक्री in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on February 3, 2009 and in Europe on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in PAL territories before the निन्टेंडो ds version.
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is considered today to be one of the greatest video games of all time.
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary, including its multiple endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on अक्षर विकास, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the तीसरा best-selling खेल of 1995, और the game 's SNES and PlayStation iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003.
The संस्करण लिये the निन्टेंडो DS sold 790,000 copies as of March 2009.
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones, Virtual कंसोल, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल ( तभी in the USA ), iOS devices, and Android devices.
बकरी चीज
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( from the फ्रेंच शब्द लिये बकरी ), is चीज made out of the milk of goats.
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation that occurs जब a देह produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature elevation then becomes a medical emergency requiring तात्कालिक उपचार to prevent disability or death.
The most common causes include heat stroke and adverse reactions to drugs.
the पूर्व is an अधि temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat, or combination of heat and humidity, that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many drugs, विशेषकर those that affect the central nervous system.
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of some types of सामान्य एनेस्थीसिया.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the treatment of some kinds of कर्कट और अन्य conditions, most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
Hyperthermia differs from fever in that the body 's temperature set पाइंट remains अपरिवर्तित.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs when the तापमान drops below that required to maintain normal metabolism.
Belize, is a country located on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the तभी देश in the area where English is the official language, although Kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the north by Mexico, to the south and west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea.
इसके मेनलैंड is परिचय long और चौड़ी.
With of land and a population of only 312,698 निवासियों ( 2010 census ), Belize possesses the lowest population density in Central America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the second highest in the region and one of the highest in the western hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species, and its diversity of ecosystems दे it a कुंजी प्लेस within the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Belize has a diverse समाज, comprising many cultures and languages.
It is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage, but as a part of the Western Caribbean Zone, it also shares a common heritage with the fellow anglophone caribbean देशों.
In general, Belize is considered to be a Central American और caribbean स्वदेश साथ दमदार ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America.
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the जातियाँ of लैटिन अमरीकी और caribbean States ( CELAC ), and Central American Integration System ( SICA ).
Belize is known for its September Celebrations, and is the जन्मस्थान of chewing gum and Punta Rock.
The `` Betsy रॉस '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross '' ध्वज उड़ती बाहर San Francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United States, popularly attributed to Betsy Ross, using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
the ध्वज was designed during the American Revolution and features 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive feature of the Ross flag is the व्यवस्था of the सितारों in a वृत्त.
हालांकि the बेट्सी रॉस स्टोरी is स्वीकृत by सबसे अमेरिकी, कुछ ध्वज इतिहासकारों और revisionists do नहीं accept the बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन as the पहला अमरीकी flag.
According to the traditional account, the original flag was made in June 1776, when a छोटी committee—including George Washington, Robert Morris and relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag, altering the committee 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars.
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable, the flag design is known to have been in use by 1777 ; Alfred B. Street described it at the surrender of General burgoyne और समझा the वृत्त of stars to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form, its likeness appears on पुरानी शारीरिक relics, namely, the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale.
They depict the circular star व्यवस्था होने flown from ship masts and many other places, and thus provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs उपयोग the बेट्सी Ross flag to represent service to all veterans from the American Revolution to the present day.
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films, ऐसे as the 1960 version of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be one of the most popular symbols of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
A purr is a sound made by all species of felids and is a part of cat communication.
it varies between बिल्लियों ( लिये उदाहरण by loudness and tone ), and from species to species, but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
The term `` purring '' has been used liberally in literature, and it has been claimed that viverrids ( civet, mongoose, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals that have been said to purr are rabbits, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( और प्रायः go on लिये मिनट्स ), पीटर्स ( 2002 ), in an विस्तृत पुनर्विलोकन of the scientific literature, reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together with the four species of echidna, it is one of the five extant species of monotremes, the तभी स्तनधारियों that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the एकमात्र जीना प्रतिनिधि of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the रिवर्स of इसके 20-cent सिक्का.
the platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New South Wales.
Until the early 20th century, it थी hunted लिये इसके फर, but it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a village in मिलर County, Missouri, United States.
The population was 336 at the 2010 census.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( cdp ) in Sacramento County, California, United States.
It is part of the Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census, up इससे 4,551 at the 2000 census.
In human-computer interaction, cut and paste और नक़ल and paste are related commands that offer a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text, data, files or objects from a source to a destination.
Most ubiquitously, users require the ability to cut और paste भाग of plain text.
The काटें कमांड removes the चयनित आंकड़ा इससे इसके original position, while the copy command creates a duplicate ; in both cases the selected data is placed in a clipboard.
The data in the clipboard is later inserted in the position where the paste कमांड is issued.
The command names are an interface metaphor based on the physical procedure used in manuscript संपादन to बनाएँ a page layout.
This interaction technique has close एसोसिएशन साथ सम्बन्धित techniques in graphical user interfaces that use pointing devices such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop, for example ).
Economic order quantity is the order quantity that minimizes total inventory holding costs and ordering लागत.
It is one of the oldest classical production scheduling models.
The फ्रेमवर्क प्रयुक्त to determine this order quantity is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula.
The model was विकसित by घाट W. हैरिस in 1913, but R. H. Wilson, a consultant who applied it extensively, is given credit for his in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` Stevie '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his आद्याक्षर srv, Vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris layton और bassist टॉमी Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went सुनहरा.
He was born and raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a छोटी काल of समय जिया in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in लोकल nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped आउट of ऊँची स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining groups such as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that eventually evolved into Double ट्रबल and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the ध्यान of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on उसके आगामी studio album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to Epic Records by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the समूह released the एल्बम, could n't स्टैंड the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and दारू habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released और अर्जित उन्हें a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and Muddy Waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the ब्लूज़ हॉल of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the महानतम संगीतकारों to come from the state of Texas.
The लास वेगास Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending मशीने in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States चूंकि कूच 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, जिससे is तब sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, उपज समाप्त product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब बेचें, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also बिकता concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced अन्य cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, coca-cola शून्य, coca-cola वैनिला, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
Barry Louis Larkin ( born April 28, 1964 ) is a retired Major League Baseball खिलाड़ी.
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and was one of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' World श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप team.
Larkin was निर्वाचित to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in January 2012 and was inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered one of the शीर्ष खिलाड़ी of उसके era, जीतना nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards.
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game twelve times, and was elected the 1995 National League सबसे मूल्यवान Player.
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District.
Administratively, the city is स्तिथ in the संघीय District which is in the Central-West Region.
Physically, it is स्तिथ in the Brazilian Highlands.
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the चौथी largest city in Brazil.
However, as a महानगर क्षेत्रफल, it बाँधने lower at sixth in population.
brasília is the largest नगर in the संसार कि किया नहीं मौजूद at the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी.
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among लैटिन अमरीकी cities and the third in Brazil.
At around r $ 62,000 ब्राज़ीलियाई reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US dollars or €23,000 euros ), the city 's per capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities.
As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the federal government of Brazil.
the city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies.
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban क्षेत्रों, as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors लिये निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector.
Brasília hosts 124 विदेशी embassies.
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner, Oscar Niemeyer as the प्रिंसिपल architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer.
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's World hertitage सूची due to its architecture.
On April 22, 1960, it formally became Brazil 's national capital.
Viewed इससे above, the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly.
The city is commonly referred to as Capital Federal, or simply BSB.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the नगर लकिन जो migrated वहीँ बाद it was established ).
In local usage, the word `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the First Administrative Region ( RA I ) भीतर the संघीय District ( Distrito Federal ), where the most important government buildings are located.
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an प्रशासनिक प्रभाग बल्कि than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously with the Federal District, which constitutes an indivisible federative Unit, analogous to a state.
Several `` satellite cities '' exist which are also भाग of the संघीय District.
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations.
It is the third most important airport in Brazil, in terms of passengers और वायुयान आंदोलनों.
Personifications of Germany, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and the United Kingdom attempting to keep the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war.
They were कामयाब in 1912 and 1913 but did not succeed in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918, शामिल अनेक कारकों, ऐसे as the conflicts and hostility of the four decades leading up to the war.
Militarism, alliances, imperialism, and राष्ट्रवाद निभाई major roles in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914, casus belli लिये जिससे थी the हत्या of Archduke Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke of Austria Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip, an irredentist Serb.
The crisis came after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between the Great Powers ( Italy, France, Germany, the British Empire, the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn ये diplomatic clashes can be traced to changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867.
The more immediate cause लिये the युद्ध थी tensions over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed साथ सर्बिया and Russia for territory and influence in the region and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war, the war 's origins go deeper, involving national politics, cultures, economics, and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances कि था विकसित between the विभिन्न European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate system of alliances, the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe, convoluted and fragmented governance, the arms races of the previous decades, previous military planning, imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth, power and prestige, and आर्थिक और सैन्य फंसने in उद्योग और व्यापार – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
Other causes that came into play during the राजनयिक संकट कि preceded the युद्ध शामिल misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the German belief that the United Kingdom would remain neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications.
The various categories of स्पष्टीकरण for World War I correspond to different historians ' overall methods.
Most historians and popular commentators include causes from more than one श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the inevitable and predictable outcome of certain factors, और those कि describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, historians and academics had to deal साथ an unprecedented बाढ़ of memoirs and official documents, released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war.
Early releases of information by governments, particularly those released for use by the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were दिखाया to be अधूरी and biased.
In जोड some documents, especially diplomatic cables between Russia and France, were found to have been doctored.
Even in later decades however, when much more information had been released, historians from the same culture have महरूम दिखाया to आइये to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's new चार्ट of नेशनल emblems, published c. 1868.
The विशाल ध्वज दिखाया in the किनारे हैं the 37-star ध्वज of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom, the Russian Imperial Standard, and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle.
Various अन्य ध्वज flown by ships are shown.
The Flag of Cuba is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn mistakenly as a western dragon.
A national ध्वज is a flag that symbolizes a country.
The flag is flown by the government, but usually can also be flown by नागरिकों of the country.
Both public और निजी इमारतें ऐसे as schools and courthouses may fly the national flag.
In some countries, the नेशनल ध्वज हैं तभी flown from non-military buildings on certain flag days.
There are three पृथक प्रकार of नेशनल ध्वज लिये उपयोग on जमीन, and three for use at sea, though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln जारी the emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the वेस्ट, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, और 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
norrie बीमारी is a जेनेटिक disorder that primarily affects the eye and almost always leads to blindness.
in जोड to the congenital ocular symptoms, some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade of life, while another portion may be mentally challenged.
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear white when light is shone on them ), along with other developmental issues in the eye, ऐसे as shrinking of the globe and the wasting away of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like सुविधाएँ, incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities.
Most patients are born with normal hearing ; however, the onset of hearing loss is very common in early किशोरावस्था.
परिचय 15 % of the patients are estimated to develop all the features of the disease.
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon बाद जनम, क्युकी the disease is inherited X-linked recessive.
Only in very rare cases, females have been diagnosed with Norrie बीमारी as well.
The exact incidence number is unknown ; only a few hundred cases have been reported so far.
It is a very rare disorder कि is not associated with any specific ethnic or racial groups.
A contract is an अनुबंध having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The पार्टियों may be natural persons or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Sale of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed for वेब विकास to produce dynamic Web pages.
It was developed by Microsoft to allow प्रोग्रामर्स to निर्माण dynamic web sites, web applications and web services.
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the.NET Framework, and is the successor to microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime ( CLR ), allowing programmers to write ASP.NET code using any supported.NET language.
The ASP.NET SOAP extension फ्रेमवर्क allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline परिवार, खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक effects which can include altered thinking processes, closed and open eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is प्रयुक्त मुख्यतः as an entheogen, recreational drug, and as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is not known to cause brain damage, and has extremely low toxicity सापेक्ष to dose.
However, adverse मनोरोग reactions such as anxiety, paranoia, and delusions are possible.
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine, a chemical निकला by आर्थर Stoll from ergot, a grain fungus that typically grows on rye.
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early code name lsd-25, जिससे is an संक्षिप्त for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is sensitive to oxygen, ultraviolet light, and chlorine, especially in solution, though its potency may पिछला लिये सालो if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature.
in pure रूप it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, usually on a substrate such as absorbent blotter पेपर, a शुगर घन, or gelatin.
In its liquid form, it can also be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) होने the threshold dose.
New experiments with LSD started in 2009 लिये the पहला समय in 40 years.
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories, with trade-name Delysid, as a drug with various psychiatric uses in 1947, LSD जल्दी became a therapeutic एजेंट कि appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) thought the drug might be लागू to दिमाग कंट्रोल और रासायनिक warfare ; the agency 's MKULTRA research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the पश्चिमी world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in its prohibition.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation, MAPS, Heffter Research Institute and the Albert Hofmann Foundation—exist to निधि, प्रोत्साहित और निर्देशांक शोध into the औषधीय and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's Sea, Air, Land Teams, commonly known as the Navy SEALs, are the U.S. Navy 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन force and a part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command.
`` SEAL '' is always capitalized in reference to members of the नवल खास Warfare community.
The acronym is derived from उनके क्षमता to operate at sea, in the air, and on land.
SEALs are male members of the United States Navy.
An exchange program with the Coast Guard, which graduated three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs, was suspended in 2011.
The CIA 's highly secretive खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams.
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go back to the famed macv-sog during the Vietnam War.
This cooperation still exists today and is देखी in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.
World population estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, आधारित on un 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population आंकड़े are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may मनाही to 6 billion.
The world population is the total number of जीना इंसानो on Earth.
As of आज, it is estimated to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a पृथक अनुमान by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly दौरान the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall decline in the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the U.S. राज्य of Tennessee, and the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw bluff, दक्षिण of the confluence of the Wolf and Mississippi rivers.
मेम्फिस था a जनसांख्यिकी of 672,277 in 2011 बनाना it the largest नगर in the राज्य of टेनेसी, the largest नगर on the मिसिसिपी नदी, the तीसरा largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, और the 20th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The greater Memphis metropolitan area, including adjacent counties in मिसिसिपी और Arkansas, had a 2010 population of 1,316,100.
This makes मेम्फिस the second largest metropolitan area in Tennessee, surpassed only by metropolitan Nashville, which has overtaken Memphis in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of टेनेसी 's major cities.
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian, and the Memphis region is known, particularly to media outlets, as `` मेम्फिस & the Mid-South ``.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in France.
France produces around तीन quarters of इसके electricity by nuclear power.
The grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition घोषित on may 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 reactors are under निर्माण in 15 countries.
Nuclear शक्ति स्टेशन operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, although according to the World Nuclear संघ, of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out नाभिकीय power.
As of June 2011, countries such as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां homo sapiens
This is a तालिका of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the ठेठ इंसान, और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of identical bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
उदाहरण range from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the धड़ or ट्रंक, मांसपेशियां of the अपर limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the standard anatomical position.
In other स्थितियाँ, other actions may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at Fort Foster, 1837 ( at Hillsborough River State पार्क )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective नाम दिए to the amalgamation of various groups of native Americans and Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army.
The First seminole युद्ध थी इससे 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second Seminole War from 1835 to 1842, and the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858.
The first conflict with the Seminoles arose out of tensions relating to General एंड्रयू जैक्सन 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816.
Jackson also attacked the Spanish at Pensacola.
Ultimately, the Spanish Crown ceded the उपनिवेश to संयुक्त States rule.
Orono is a कस्बा in Penobscot County, Maine, United States.
It was first settled in 1774 and named in honor of मुख्य जोसेफ Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
It is home to The विश्वविद्यालयों of Maine.
The population was 10,362 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
View of the pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM Resorts International, has a casino with over 2,000 स्लॉट मशीने और 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a new, अत्यधिक आधुनिकीकरण, और समकालीन design and contains a total of 4,400 rooms, including 442 suites, lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions.
The hotel is named after the city of लक्सर ( प्राचीन Thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas ( the largest being the mgm ग्रैंड ) और the eighth largest in the world.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating कार्यक्रम, which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot study, is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, adverse events, and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project.
Pilot studies, therefore, may not be उचित लिये case studies.
The Los एंजिल्स आग विभाग ( LAFD ) is the agency that provides fire protection and emergency medical services for the city of Los Angeles.
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to distinguish it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department.
The acre is a unit of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the imperial and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly छोटी than an American football field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable exceptions include the United States, Australia, Burma और the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010, the एकड़ is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to some extent, in Canada.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a वर्गाकार मील.
The most commonly used acre today is the international acre.
In the United States both the international acre and the slightly अलग us सर्वेक्षण acre are in use.
The most common use of the acre is to माप tracts of land.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a देशी American people and its language:
pawnee people
Pawnee भाषा
Pawnee is भी the name of several places in the United States:
Pawnee, इलिनोइस
pawnee, Kansas
Pawnee City, नेब्रास्का
Pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, Texas
Pawnee नेशनल Grassland, Colorado
Pawnee Township ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee काउंटी ( disambiguation )
Pawnee may also refer to:
Piper PA-25 Pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee, experimental वायुयान
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of the NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation.
broca 's and Wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings उपयोग शब्द to communicate ideas and feelings, and how such communications are processed and understood.
Thus it is how the brain creates and understands language.
सबसे हाल theories consider that this process is carried out entirely by and inside the brain.
This is considered one of the most characteristic abilities of the इंसान species - perhaps the most characteristic.
However very little is known about it and there is विशाल पैमाना for research on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury, whether external ( wounds, bullets ) or internal ( strokes, tumors, degenerative diseases ).
Studies have shown that most of the भाषा प्रसंस्करण functions are carried out in the cerebral cortex.
The essential function of the cortical भाषा areas is symbolic representation.
Even though भाषा exists in different forms, all of them are based on symbolic representation.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, France by bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल s.a.s.
The Super Sport version of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal production car in the world, with a top speed of.
the असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष गति of.
It थी नामित car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven सब Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of volkswagen, साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A क्रमांक of खास विसंगतियाँ have been produced.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
DVD is an optical disc storage format, invented and developed by Philips, Sony, तोशिबा, और Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs offer higher भंडार क्षमता than compact discs while having the same dimensions.
pre-recorded dvds हैं mass-produced using molding machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD.
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM, because data can only be read और नहीं written nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM. Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW, DVD+RW, and dvd-ram ) can be अंकित और erased multiple times.
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format, as well as for authoring AVCHD discs.
DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as dvd आंकड़ा discs.
What Chilli Wants is an American reality series on VH1 starring Chilli, one-third of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning r & B trio TLC.
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of Tionna T. smalls, an लेखक और संबंध coach.
The series premiered on April 11, 2010, and has since been renewed लिये a दूसरी ऋतु.
The second season premiered on Sunday, January 2, 2011.
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8, 1985 ), known by his stage name Bruno Mars, is an American singer-songwriter and record producer.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of musicians, Mars began making music at a young age and performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from high स्कूल और तब स्थानांतरित to Los Angeles, California, to pursue a musical career.
Mars produced songs for अन्य कलाकारों, joining production team The Smeezingtons.
Mars had an unsuccessful कार्यावधि with Motown Records, but then signed with Atlantic in 2009.
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` nothin ' on तुम `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha, and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
In October 2010, he released his debut एल्बम, doo-wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` Just the Way तुम हैं `` और `` ग्रेनेड ``, the एल्बम peaked at number three on the Billboard 200.
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, winning Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for `` बस the Way You Are ''.
His second studio album, Unorthodox Jukebox, was released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles and influences, and contains तत्व of अनेक musical genres.
He has worked with an assortment of artists from various genres.
As a child, he was highly influenced by कलाकारों ऐसे as छोटी रिचर्ड, एल्विस प्रेस्ली और Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists from a young age.
Mars also incorporates रेगी - and Motown -inspired sounds into his work.
Worldwide, Mars became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He had three singles in the top ten, सहित पहला place with `` Just the Way You Are '', which sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars won Best International Male Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards.
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums and 40 million singles विश्वव्यापी as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, निर्माता and singer his total single download sales surpass 100 million worldwide.
बस्ट of ज़ीउस, Otricoli ( Sala Rotonda, Museo Pio-Clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the प्राचीन यूनानियों, concerning their gods and heroes, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices.
It was a part of the religion in ancient Greece और is भाग of धर्म in modern Greece and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw लाइट on the धार्मिक और राजनैतिक institutions of Ancient Greece and its civilization, and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, और implicitly in Greek representational arts, such as vase-paintings and votive gifts.
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, and mythological creatures.
These accounts initially यहूद disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature.
The oldest known Greek literary स्त्रोत, होमर 's एपिक कविताएं इलियड and Odyssey, focus on events surrounding the Trojan War.
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod, the Theogony and the Works and Days, contain accounts of the genesis of the world, the उत्तराधिकार of दैवी शासकों, the उत्तराधिकार of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the origin of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth century BC, in writings of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological findings provide a principal सोर्स of विवरण about Greek mythology, with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of heracles.
In the succeeding Archaic, Classical, and Hellenistic periods, Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the मौजूदा साहित्यिक evidence.
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture, arts, and साहित्य of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language.
कवियों और artists from ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes.
Mouth & macneal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal was a pop duo from the नीदरलैंड्स.
They are best ज्ञात लिये their million selling recording of `` How Do You Do ``.
The Boise State Broncos football program represents boise राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in college football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference.
वे हैं फिलहाल led by head coach Chris Petersen and play their home games at Bronco Stadium.
The franc ( sign : Fr. or SFr. ; German : Franken, French and Romansh : franc, Italian : franco ; code : CHF ) is the करेंसी और legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal करेंसी is the euro ), it is in wide daily use there.
The Swiss National Bank issues banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins.
The Swiss franc is the तभी version of the franc still issued in Europe.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a Rappen ( Rp. ) in जर्मनी, centime ( c. ) in French, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
The ISO code of the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by बैंको और वित्तीय संस्थानों is chf, हालांकि `` Fr. '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr. ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different languages used in Switzerland, Latin is used for language-neutral inscriptions on the सिक्के.
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the मूक era.
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his screen persona `` the Tramp `` and is considered one of the most important figures of the film industry.
His career spanned more than 75 years, from a child in the Victorian era to close to his death at the age of 88, और encompassed दोनो adulation and controversy.
Raised in London, चैपलिन 's बाल्यकाल was defined by poverty and hardship.
He थी भेजा to a workhouse twice before the age of nine ; his father was absent, and his mother was committed to a mental asylum.
Chaplin began performing from a young age, touring music halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian.
At 19 he was signed to the prestigious Fred Karno company, which took him to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the film उद्योग, and made his first appearances in 1914 with Keystone Studios.
He soon developed the Tramp persona and formed a विशाल प्रशंसक base.
Chaplin directed his films from an early स्टेज, और जारी to hone उसके शिल्प as he moved to the Essanay, Mutual, and First National corporations.
By 1918, he was one of the सबसे famous men in the world.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the distribution company United Artists, giving him complete control over his films.
His first feature-length चित्र was The Kid ( 1921 ), followed by A Woman of Paris ( 1923 ), The Gold Rush ( 1925 ), and The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, instead producing City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly political and his next film, The ग्रेट तानाशाह ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf Hitler.
The 1940s was a decade marked with controversy for Chaplin, and his लोकप्रियता declined rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, while his involvement in a paternity suit और विवाह to much younger women were considered scandalous.
An FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin, and he was eventually forced to leave the संयुक्त राज्य and settle in Switzerland.
he abandoned the ट्रैम्प लिये his later films, which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), Limelight ( 1952 ), A King in New York ( 1957 ), and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, directed, produced, edited, scored, और starred in most of his films.
He was a perfectionist, and his financial independence meant he often spent years on the विकास और उत्पादन of a चित्र.
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos, and often feature the Tramp struggling विरूद्ध adversity.
Many contain social and political themes, as well as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as part of a renewed appreciation for his work, Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century ''.
He continues to be held in high regard, with The Gold Rush, City Lights, Modern Times, and The Great Dictator often ranked among the महानतम films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood, is the U.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित Parenthood Federation ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive स्वास्थ्य और maternal and child health services.
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund, Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization which lobbies for pro-choice legislation, comprehensive sex education, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. प्रदाता of reproductive health services, including cancer screening, HIV screening and counseling, contraception, and abortion.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's कुल सेवाएं और abortions खाता लिये 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each year, among 3 million people served.
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn, नई यॉर्क, where Margaret Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the अमरीकी जनम कंट्रोल League in 1921, which in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned Parenthood रै grown to have over 820 clinic locations in the U.S., with a total budget of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million people in the United States, और supports services for over one million clients outside the United States.
Mens rea is Latin लिये `` अपराधी mind ''.
In दण्ड विधि, it is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the Latin phrase, actus गैर facit reum nisi पुरुषों बैठना rea, जिससे means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due process, there must be an actus reus, or `` guilty act, '' accompanied by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is चार्ज ( देखिए the तकनीकी requirement of concurrence ).
As a सामान्य नियम, दण्ड देयता करता नहीं संलग्न to a व्यक्ति जो acted साथ the अनुपस्थिति of दिमागी दोष.
The exception is strict देयता crimes.
In सिविल विधि, it is प्रायः नहीं जरुरी to prove a subjective mental element to establish liability for breach of contract or tort, for example.
However, if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached, such intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the माप of क्षतिपूर्ति देय to the plaintiff.
Therefore, mens rea refers to the mental element of the offence that accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the terms mens rea and actus reus have been replaced by alternative शब्दावली.
In Australia, for example, the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` दिमागी तत्व '' ( mens rea ) and `` physical elements '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology was adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin शर्तें साथ सरल और सटीक phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885 ) was the 18th President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful role as a war general in the second half of the Civil War.
Under Grant, the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the war and secession with the surrender of Robert E. Lee 's army at Appomattox.
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their effort to eliminate सब vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery.
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having desired to protect African American citizenship, President Grant effectively destroyed the ku klux Klan in 1871.
Grant was the first President to स्थापित सिविल सेवा सुधार having निर्मित a two-year federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871.
In terms of विदेशी नीति, ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees, and by America 's first औद्योगिक आयु आर्थिक अवसाद ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term.
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 साथ reformers denouncing him, Grant was easily reelected.
By 1875 the रूढ़िवादी श्वेत दक्षिणी विपक्ष regained कंट्रोल of प्रत्येक state in the South and as he left the White House in March 1877 his policies were being undone.
A career soldier, he graduated from the संयुक्त राज्य Military Academy at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War.
When the Civil War began in 1861, Grant trained संघ स्वयंसेवी regiments in Illinois.
In 1862, as a सामान्य he लड़ा a श्रेणी of लड़ाइयों और थी प्रचारित to major general after forcing the surrender of a large Confederate army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee.
He then led Union शक्तियां to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh, earning a reputation as an aggressive commander.
In July 1863, after a long, complex campaign, Grant defeated five uncoordinated Confederate armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized vicksburg.
This famous victory gave the Union full control of the मिसिसिपी नदी, split off the western Confederacy, and opened the way for more Union triumphs.
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863, President Abraham Lincoln made him लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर of all of the Union Armies.
As commanding general of the army, Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a श्रेणी of बहुत खूनी लड़ाइयों in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg, outside the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns launched by William Tecumseh Sherman, फिलिप sheridan, and George Thomas.
Finally breaking through Lee 's trenches, the Union Army captured Richmond in अप्रैल 1865.
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to Grant at Appomattox as the confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked Grant as a ruthless butcher who won by brute force, सबसे इतिहासकारों have hailed his military genius.
ग्रान्ट 's दो लगातार शर्तें as President stabilized the nation after the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed.
As president, he enforced पुनर्निर्माण by enforcing civil rights laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan violence.
ग्रान्ट जीती ड्योढ़ी of the Fifteenth Amendment ; giving constitutional protection for African-American voting rights.
He used the army to build the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी in the दक्षिण, आधारित on ब्लैक मतदाता, Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a result, African Americans were represented in the U.S. Congress for the पहला समय in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations, and his enlistment of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies, that effectively curbed Congressional patronage.
Grant remained determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated from white settler encroachment or by the U.S. military.
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation Bill, the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act, and Secretary bristow 's कामयाब छापे कि shut down the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, implemented International Arbitration, settled the Alabama Claims with Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair.
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing device, usually a coin-operated यंत्र, कि होगा खेल a patron 's selection from self-contained media.
The classic jukebox has buttons with letters and numbers on उन्हें that, when entered in combination, are used to play a specific selection.
A drug परीक्षण is a तकनीकी विश्लेषण of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, blood, sweat, or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by laws, such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine, Morphine, Heroin, oxycodone, hydrocodone, etc. )
phencyclidine ( PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket, used for the American manned lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery and exploration of outer स्पेस by means of space technology.
Physical exploration of space is conducted both by human spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
While the observation of objects in space, known as astronomy, predates reliable recorded history, it was the development of large and relatively efficient rockets दौरान the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific research, uniting different nations, ensuring the future survival of humanity and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries.
Various आलोचनाओं of स्पेस exploration are sometimes made.
Space exploration has प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी प्रतियोगिता for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War.
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States, the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth, the USSR 's Sputnik 1, on 4 October 1957, and the first Moon landing by the अमरीकी अपोलो 11 शिल्प on 20 जुलाई 1969 हैं often taken as the boundaries for this initial period.
The Soviet space program achieved many of the पहला माइलस्टोन, सहित the पहला जीना होने in कक्षा in 1957, the पहला human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, focus shifted from one-off flights to renewable hardware, such as the Space Shuttle program, and from competition to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011, plans for space exploration by the यूएसए remain in फ्लक्स.
Constellation, a Bush Administration program for a return to the Moon by 2020 was judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009.
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the capability for crewed missions beyond low earth orbit ( LEO ), envisioning extending the operation of the ISS beyond 2020, transferring the विकास of लॉन्च वाहनों लिये इंसान क्रू इससे नासा to the निजी सेक्टर, और developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the US Senate and House of Representatives are still working towards a compromise NASA funding bill, which will probably terminate Constellation and fund विकास of a भारी लिफ्ट लॉन्च गाडी ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the People 's Republic of China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program, while the European Union, Japan, and India have also planned future manned space missions.
China, Russia, जापानी, और इण्डिया have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century, while the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century.
From the 1990s onwards, private interests began promoting space tourism and तब निजी स्पेस खोजी of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ).
John calvin कूलिज, jr. ( जुलाई 4, 1872January 5, 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A Republican lawyer from Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the ladder of Massachusetts state राजनीती, आखिरकार बनने राज्यपाल of that state.
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust उसे into the national spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action.
Soon after, he was elected as the 29th वाइस अध्यक्ष in 1920 और succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden death of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his own right in 1924, he gained a reputation as a small-government conservative, and also as a man who said very little.
Coolidge restored public confidence in the White House after the scandals of his predecessor 's administration, and left office with considerable popularity.
as a कूलिज biographer put it, `` he समाविष्ट the स्पिरिट और उम्मीदें of the मध्य क्लास, could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस उनके राय.
That he did represent the genius of the औसत is the most convincing proof of his strength. ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as part of a general criticism of laissez-faire सरकारी.
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration, but the ultimate assessment of his presidency is still divided between those who approve of his reduction of the आकार of सरकारी कार्यक्रम और those जो मानना the संघीय सरकारी should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy.
एस्प्रेसो is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly boiling water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans.
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids, and crema ( meaning cream, but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors and chemicals in a typical cup of एस्प्रेसो हैं बहुत concentrated.
Espresso is the base for other drinks, such as a latte, cappuccino, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages, but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
Brian Keith Kelly ( born October 25, 1961 ) is an American football कोच और पूर्व खिलाड़ी.
He is फिलहाल the head football coach for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish, a position he has held since December 2009.
Kelly was previously सिर कोच at ग्रैंड घाटी राज्य University ( 1991–2003 ), Central Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ), and University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ).
A अनुबंध is an अनुबंध having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a अनुबंध हैं `` प्रस्ताव '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in writing, हालांकि contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through an आदेश.
दोनो of ये remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural व्यक्तियों or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym लिये अनुबंध, although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to civil law, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि, particularly from England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सम्मेलन on अनुबंध for the International Sale of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ONS ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is captain of the पिट्सबर्ग penguins of the नेशनल हॉकी League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the Quebec Major Junior हॉकी लीग ( QMJHL ).
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic, he earned back-to-back CHL Player of the साल awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final.
Nicknamed `` The Next One ``, he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey history, leading many to refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his first NHL season, Crosby finished sixth in league स्कोरिंग साथ 102 अंक ( 39 लक्ष्य, 63 assists ) और थी a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ).
By his second season, he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the Art Ross Trophy, becoming the youngest player and the तभी किशोरावस्था to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league.
That same season, Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most valuable player and the Lester B. Pearson Award as the NHL Players संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, बनने the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year.
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals, where they were defeated by the डेट्रॉयट रेड Wings in six games.
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest कप्तान in एनएचएल इतिहास to जीत the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard Trophy as the league-leader ; with 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, Crosby received the Mark Messier Leadership Award.
In 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a result of hits to the सिर in back-to-back खेल.
The injury left him sidelined for ten and a half months.
However, after playing eight games in the 2011–12 ऋतु, crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in December 2011, and he did not return until mid-March 2012.
Internationally, Crosby has represented Canada in numerous tournaments for the देश 's जूनियर और मेन 's teams.
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World Cup, he represented Canada in back-to-back IIHF World U20 championships, जीतना चांदी in 2004 और gold in 2005.
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship, he led the tournament in scoring, while also earning Top आगे और all-star Team honours.
Four years later, Crosby was named to Team Canada for the 2010 शीत Olympics in Vancouver.
Playing the United States in the सुनहरा पदक खेल, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
A United States cent, also ज्ञात as a penny.
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) और its longer version `` put my two cents in '' is an United States ( US ) idiomatic expression, taken from the original English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is used to preface the tentative stating of one’s राय.
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents, a very small amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a संभवतः बयान, प्रर्दशित politeness and humility.
However, it is also sometimes used with irony when expressing a strongly felt opinion.
The phrase is also used out of habit to preface uncontentious opinions.
For example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the गणतंत्र of चीन led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ).
The युद्ध began in April 1927, amidst the Northern Expedition, and essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the Republic of China ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of चीन ( PRC ) in mainland China, both claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The युद्ध represented an ideological split ( Left vs. Right ) between the Communist CPC, and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism.
The civil war continued intermittently until late 1937, when the two parties formed a Second संयुक्त Front to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale सिविल युद्ध resumed in 1946, a year after the end of hostilities with Japan.
After चार अधिक सालो, 1950 देखी the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly founded People 's Republic of China controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ), and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.
The Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on जून 1948 कि the kmt था विफल, not because of external enemies but because of rot from within.
Strong आरंभिक support from the U.S. diminished, and then, stopped.
( Partly because of KMT corruption and anti-democratic regime, and partly because of the uncertain U.S. foreign policy towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords.
This ensured PLA लोकप्रिय support.
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II, Soviet forces turned over their captured Japanese weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this day, no armistice or peace treaty has ever been signed, and it is debated as to the whether the सिविल युद्ध रै legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political and economic pressure, particularly over Taiwan 's राजनैतिक औकात, साथ both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the आरओसी साथ a सैन्य invasion if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
The ROC mutually दावा mainland China, and they both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition.
Today, the war as such occurs on the राजनैतिक और आर्थिक fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however, the two separate de facto states have close economic ties.
The One Hundred बारहवीं संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस was the meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government, from January 3, 2011 until January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, and ended on January 3, 2013, 17 days before the end of the presidential term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008.
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 समाप्त those terms in this Congress.
This कॉंग्रेस शामिल the पिछला हाउस of Representatives elected from congressional districts that were apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 मध्यावधि चुनावों, the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी won the majority in the House of Representatives.
While the Democrats kept their Senate majority, it was reduced इससे the पिछला कॉंग्रेस.
This was the first Congress in जिससे the हाउस and Senate were controlled by different parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ), and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In this Congress, the House of Representatives had the largest number of Republican members, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served, as well as the most politically polarized Congress since Reconstruction, with रिकार्ड कम approval ratings.
Wealth in the संयुक्त राज्य is commonly measured in terms of net worth, which is the sum of all assets, including home equity, minus all liabilities.
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit organizations 1945–2009, unadjusted for inflation or population change.
For example, a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in mutual funds, $ 30,000 in गाड़ियाँ, $ 20,000 लायक of stock in their own company, and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage, $ 40,000 in car loans, and $ 10,000 in credit card debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the worth of इस household 's assets ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
Net worth can vary with fluctuations in मान of the underlying assets.
The माल —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the United States is varied with relation to race, education, geographic location and gender.
As one would expect, households with greater income feature the highest जाल worths, हालांकि ऊँची आय can नहीं be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the rise, with baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly distributed, with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the United States, जिससे थी $ 54.2 खरब in 2009.
Including human capital ऐसे as कौशल, the United Nations estimated the total wealth of the United States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief ; for those procedures, which have begun to लो the नाम `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy and similar.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord, most often to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in this surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
The sensory nerve roots, where spasticity is located, are first separated from the मोटर ones, और the nerve fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity are then selectively lesioned with tiny विद्युत pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged nerves that don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid, which is the core प्रॉब्लम लिये लोगों साथ spastic cerebral palsy.
These over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the source of the रोगी 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated with the electrical pulses once identified, while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and that this is done without affecting nervous system sensitivity or function in other areas, because the only nerves destroyed are the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार लिये the मांसपेशी tightness.
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly बनने interchangeable in the उपचार of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease.
This is a कार्यविधि पुकारा a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more months of pain relief before the nerve regenerates and another round of the procedure needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be confused with the SDR procedure.
Migrant मजदूर in California, 1935
The term migrant worker रै अलग आधिकारिक meanings and connotations in different parts of the world.
the संयुक्त Nations ' definition is broad, including any people working outside of their home country.
The term can also be used to describe someone who migrates within a country, possibly their own, in order to pursue work such as seasonal work.
फोटोग्राफ of लील वेन साथ teardrop tattoos below his eyes.
The teardrop टैटू or tear tattoo is a symbolic tattoo that is placed underneath the eye.
It has no fixed meaning but almost all meanings ( देखिए नीचे ) have some connection to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south U.S. Highway.
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson County, Minnesota, at the Canadian border, where it once continued as मनिटोबा Highway 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern टर्मिनस is at अंतरराज्यीय 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas, Texas, where it is known as North Central Expressway.
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route, from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico at Galveston, Texas.
However, the entire segment south of Dallas, Texas has been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45, a cutoff section of town-to-town सतह सड़क having become State Highway 75.
Lower Ninth Ward is a neighborhood of the city of New ऑरलियन्स.
As the name implies, it is part of the नवीं Ward of New Orleans.
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the Industrial Canal ; however, the City Planning Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the मिसिसिपी River, `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology.
But the 9th Ward, like all Wards in New Orleans, is a voting district.
the 9th वार्ड was added as a voting district in 1852.
the `` निम्नतर '' 9th वार्ड is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, and 7 which make up the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 Districts 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the Industrial Canal.
The area came to national ध्यान लिये इसके devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Hubble views of कोपरनिकस crater ( inset ), which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and नारंगी tinted चंद्रमा, as देखी इससे धरती during a lunar eclipse, where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural उपग्रह of the धरती, and the fifth largest satellite in the Solar System.
It is the largest प्राकृतिक उपग्रह of a ग्रह in the सौर System relative to the size of its primary, having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The Moon is the दूसरी densest satellite after Io, a satellite of Jupiter.
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth, always प्रर्दशित the वही face with its near side marked by dark volcanic maria that fill between the bright ancient crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters.
It is the brightest object in the आसमान after the Sun, although its surface is actually very dark, with a reflectance similar to that of coal.
इसके prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have, since ancient times, made the Moon an important cultural influence on language, calendars, art and mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the समंदर tides and the minute lengthening of the day.
The Moon 's current orbital distance, about thirty times the diameter of the Earth, causes it to appear almost the same size in the sky as the सूर्य, allowing it to कवर the सूर्य nearly precisely in total solar eclipses.
This matching of apparent visual size is a coincidence.
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is फिलहाल increasing at a रेट of 3.82±0.07cm per year, but this rate is not constant.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 billion years पहले, नहीं long after the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past, the वर्तमान सबसे widely स्वीकृत स्पष्टीकरण is that the Moon formed from the debris left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
the चंद्रमा is the तभी celestial body other than Earth on which humans have set foot.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo program achieved the only manned missions to date, beginning with the first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968, and six manned lunar अवतरण between 1969 और 1972, with the first being Apollo 11.
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks, which have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins, the गठन of इसके आतंरिक ढांचा, और its subsequent history.
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the Moon has been visited only by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover.
Since 2004, Japan, China, India, the United States, and the यूरोपीय स्पेस Agency have each sent lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of चंद्र जल बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और बंधी into the चंद्र regolith.
Future manned missions to the Moon have been planned, including government as well as privately वित्तपोषित efforts.
The Moon remains, under the Outer Space सन्धि, फ़्री to सब nations to explore for peaceful purposes.
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) थी the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he थी the 33rd राज्यपाल of California ( 1967–1975 ), and a radio, film and television actor.
Born in Tampico, Illinois, and raised in Dixon, Reagan थी शिक्षित at यूरेका कॉलेज, कमाई a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology.
After graduating, Reagan moved पहला to Iowa to work as a radio broadcaster and then, in 1937, to Los Angeles where he began a career as an actor, first in films and later television.
Some of his most notable films शामिल knute rockne, All American ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan परोसा as अध्यक्ष of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a spokesman for General Electric ( GE ) ; his start in politics occurred during his work for GE.
Originally a member of the Democratic Party, his positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing speech in support of बैरी goldwater 's अध्यक्षीय candidacy in 1964, he was persuaded to seek the California governorship, winning two years later and again in 1970.
He was defeated in उसके चलाएं लिये the रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1968 and in 1976, but won both the nomination and general election in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As president, Reagan implemented sweeping new political and economic initiatives.
His supply-side economic policies, dubbed `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth, controlling the money supply to reduce inflation, deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था, और reducing सरकारी spending.
In his first term he बच an हत्या attempt, took a hard line against labor unions, announced a new War on Drugs, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a भूस्खलन in 1984, proclaiming that it was `` Morning in America ``.
His second पद थी primarily चिह्नित by foreign matters, such as the ending of the Cold War, the 1986 bombing of Libya, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the सोवियत संघ as an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य ``, he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated साथ सोवियत सामान्य सचिव Mikhail Gorbachev, culminating in the INF Treaty and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan left office in 1989.
In 1994, the former अध्यक्ष disclosed that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease earlier in the year ; he died ten years later at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he ranks highly in public opinion polls of U.S. Presidents and is credited for generating an वैचारिक पुनर्जागरण on the अमरीकी political right.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the संपूर्ण Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the यहूदी बाइबल.
The Tanakh is also known as the masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', also known as the Five Books of Moses ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is पढ़ा '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
The कावासाकी Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc class sport motorcycle.
It was introduced in 1995, and has महरूम constantly updated throughout the years in response to new products from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja line of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल in the 1980s and still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United States have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and former presidents, as well as the Presidents-elect, are known.
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. Garfield ( the 20th President ), William McKinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former President Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ), और President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the historian J.W. Clarke has suggested that most American assassinations were politically motivated actions, carried out by rational men, not all such attacks have been undertaken for राजनैतिक कारण.
Some attackers था questionable mental stability, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been निर्वाचित from the same political party as the President, the assassination of the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes.
This may explain why राजनैतिक groups typically do not make such attacks.
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about a boy who खरीदता और trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United राज्य.
ओक्लाहोमा is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th राज्य to डालें the union.
Its निवासियों are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major निर्माता of प्राकृतिक गैस, आयल, और कृषि, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top states in per capita आय विकास और सकल domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय areas.
With छोटी पहाड़ सीमाएँ, प्रेयरी, mesas, और पूर्वी वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s. आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश विशेषकर prone to कठोर मौसम.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native American ancestry, more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
ओक्लाहोमा is स्तिथ on a संगम of तीन प्रमुख अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव, a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers, और a government-sanctioned territory लिये देशी अमेरिकी.
redwall, by ब्रायन ज़ाक, is a श्रेणी of children 's fantasy novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the किताब और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on three of the novels ( Redwall, Mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The books are primarily aimed at पुरानी children, but have fans of all ages.
There have been twenty-two novels and दो चित्र books published.
The twenty-second, and final, novel, The Rogue Crew, was posthumously released on may 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by volume in the United States and is stated in घन feet.
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to fill a volume of one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet.
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water ( approximately a pint ), one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of अधिकतम density.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- si ईकाई of heat energy equal to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is approximately the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic feet ( often referred to as 1 ccf ) of प्राकृतिक gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters माप आवाज़ और not energy content, a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent, and thus calculate the actual energy use.
The therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the units therms/CCF.
It will vary साथ the मिक्सर of hydrocarbons in the natural gas.
Natural gas साथ a उच्चतर than average concentration of ethane, propane or butane will have a higher therm factor.
Impurities, such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen, निम्नतर the therm factor.
The volume of the gas is गणना as if measured at standard temperature and pressure ( STP ).
The heat content of natural gas is solely निर्भर on the संयोजन of the gas, and is independent of temperature and pressure.
One therm is equal to about 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by about of प्राकृतिक gas.
The therm sometimes has been confused with the thermie ( देखिए below ).
The names of both इकाई आइये from the Greek word for heat.
a thermie ( th ) is a मीट्रिक ईकाई of heat energy, part of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by European engineers.
The thermie is equal to the राशि of energy required to raise the temperature of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C.
the thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had इसके उत्पत्ति in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
विदेशी powers did not intervene.
After four years of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, and both sides prepared for war.
the confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to ग्यारह.
the संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which made ending गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
To the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the पश्चिमी थिएटर, विलियम T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a former U.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी, प्रेरक speaker, socialite, television personality and businessman.
He won the gold medal लिये decathlon in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition, he married Kris Kardashian, and his professional career evolved into being a टेलीविज़न celebrity.
By 1981, he had स्ट्रक्चर in अनेक made-for-tv फिल्मों और थी erik एस्ट्राडा 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs.
He has six children : Burt, Casey, ब्रैंडन, ब्रोडी, केंडल and Kylie.
Since his 1991 marriage to Kris जेनर, he is the stepfather to Kourtney, Kim, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
Since 2007, he has appeared with his blended परिवार on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can cause serious खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो, और हैं occasionally जिम्मेदार लिये उत्पाद recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, and can benefit their hosts by producing vitamin K2, and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine.
E. coli और सम्बन्धित जीवाणु constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora, and fecal–oral transmission is the major route through which pathogenic strains of the bacterium cause disease.
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time, which makes them ideal indicator जीवों to परीक्षण environmental samples for fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can also be grown easily और inexpensively in a laboratory setting, and has been intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model organism, and an महत्वपूर्ण प्रजाति in the फ़ील्ड of जैवप्रौद्योगिकी और microbiology, where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the उत्तर अमरीकी telephone area code for much of western and central Illinois.
The 217 क्षेत्रफल शामिल Illinois ' capital, Springfield, plus Champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the original area codes, which were created in 1947.
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957, when its northern portion was combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309.
चित्र of the largest Antarctic ozone hole ever recorded ( September 2006 ), over the Southern pole
Layers of the माहौल ( not to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a steady decline of about 4 % per decade in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events.
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, but the most important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens.
The main source of these हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs, freons, halons ).
These यौगिकों हैं transported into the stratosphere after being emitted at the surface.
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to increase as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs और अन्य contributory substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern leading to adoption of the मॉन्ट्रियल प्रोटोकॉल कि bans the उत्पादन of cfcs, halons, और अन्य ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a किस्में of biological consequences such as increases in skin cancer, cataracts, damage to plants, and reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion.
The प्रस्तावना to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of, the founding fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be देखी सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian shot putter Plihan at the 1957 ईस्ट जर्मनी अंदर एथलेटिक्स championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track and field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing motion ) a heavy गोलाकार ऑब्जेक्ट —the shot—as far as possible.
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the modern Olympics since their revival in 1896, women 's प्रतियोगिता began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member states, with their territories ( सहित निर्भर territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are United Nations ( UN ) member states, and each of them is a member of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सामान्य Assembly.
The मापदण्ड लिये प्रवेश of new members are set out in the United Nations Charter, Chapter II, Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council 's पंद्रह सदस्यों, साथ none of the five permanent members voting against.
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently स्वीकृत in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign states can become UN members, and currently all UN members are sovereign राज्य ( हालांकि a few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo Convention criteria हैं नहीं सदस्यों क्युकी the un करता नहीं consider them to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members.
In addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ), intergovernmental संगठन, and other international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing them to participate and speak, but not vote, in General Assembly meetings.
The Eiffel Tower (, ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris, named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel, whose company designed and built the मीनार.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become both a global cultural icon of फ़्रांस और एक of the most recognizable structures in the world.
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited paid स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 million people ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the European Union and the highest in Europe as long as the platform of the Ostankino Tower, at, remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received its 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
The tower stands tall, about the same ऊँचाई as an 81-storey building.
During its construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made structure in the world, a title it held for 41 years, until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930.
Because of the जोड, in 1957, of the antenna atop the Eiffel Tower, it is now taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including broadcast एन्टेना, it is the second-tallest structure in France, after the Millau Viaduct.
The मीनार has three levels for visitors.
Tickets can be purchased to ascend, by stairs or lift ( लिफ्ट ), to the first and second levels.
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 steps, as is the चलना इससे the पहला to the second level.
the तीसरा और उच्चतम स्तर is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do मौजूद लकिन हैं प्रायः बंद to the पब्लिक.
The first और second levels have restaurants.
the मीनार has become the most prominent symbol of both Paris and France, often in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ प्रतियोगी and author.
Jennings is noted for holding the रिकार्ड लिये the longest winning streak on the U.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time अग्रणी धन winner on American game shows.
In 2004, जेनिंग्स जीती 74 Jeopardy !
games before he was defeated by challenger Nancy Zerg on his 75th appearance.
His total आय on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 विन्स, a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th appearance, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate टूर्नामेंट of champions, as well as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge.
दौरान his first run of Jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings earned the record for the उच्चतम अमरीकी खेल show winnings.
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter, who पराजित जेनिंग्स in the finals of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on May 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the record after appearing on अनेक अन्य खेल shows, culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on October 10, 2008 ), हालांकि rutter retains the Jeopardy !
record.
After his success on Jeopardy !, Jennings wrote about his experience and explored American trivia history and culture in his book Brainiac : Adventures in the जिज्ञासु, प्रतिस्पर्धी, Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs, published in 2006.
The कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग or cfl ( ' [ LCF ] in French ) is a professional sports league located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian football, a form of gridiron football closely related to American football.
Its eight current teams, which are located in eight separate cities, are divided into two divisions of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division.
The league 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early November ; each team plays 18 games with one bye सप्ताह.
Following the regular ऋतु, the तीन टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन रिकॉर्ड in उनके प्रभाग ( मगर if the चौथी प्लेस टोली in एक प्रभाग रै a बेहतर रिकार्ड than the तीसरा प्लेस टोली in the अन्य प्रभाग, जब the टोली साथ the बेहतर रिकार्ड makes the playoffs और `` crosses over '' to the अन्य प्रभाग 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week डिवीजनल playoffs, जिससे culminate in the late-november धूसर कप चैंपियनशिप, the देश 's largest सालाना खेल और टेलीविज़न इवेंट.
The CFL was officially founded on January 19, 1958, making it the second oldest gridiron football league in North America still in आपरेशन, हालांकि सब its teams long predate the modern formation of the league.
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football, the most popular football league in Canada, and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada, after the National Hockey League.
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most popular sport, the CFL has increased the popularity of Canadian football in Quebec and Western Canada.
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e. youth, high school, CJFL, QJFL, CIS and senior लीग ऐसे as the अलबर्टा Football League ).
The 2010s will be a significant दशक लिये the cfl in शर्तें of विकास, as teams have renovated, expanded stadiums, or plan to build entirely new stadiums.
The Montreal Alouettes संपन्नता इस पहला, adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season.
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary Stampeders also renovated their respective stadiums and सुविधाएं लिये the 2010 season.
In 2011, the BC Lions played under a new, retractable छत in bc प्लेस after spending one and a half seasons at Empire Field.
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new stadium at the University of मनिटोबा, अनुसूचित to open in time for the 2013 season.
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at new or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years.
There are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in either the more populated Halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports historian Douglas Brei, the Canadian Football League holds the भेद of being the only professional sports league in North America, major or minor league, in which each existing franchise has won at least one league title while in their current location.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen ; an बातचीत similar to a lock and key.
An antibody ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ), is a large Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses.
The एंटीबॉडी recognizes a unique part of the foreign target, called an antigen.
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a ताला ) that is specific for one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on an antigen, allowing these two structures to bind together with precision.
Using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the immune system, or can neutralize its target directly ( for example, by blocking a part of a microbe कि is अनिवार्य लिये इसके आक्रमण और अस्तित्व ).
The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune system.
Antibodies are secreted by a type of white blood cell called a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms, a घुलनशील रूप कि is स्रावित इससे the कोशिका, और a झिल्ली -bound form that is attached to the surface of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ).
The BCR is only found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody कारखानों पुकारा प्लाज्मा कोशिकाएं, or मेमोरी b cells that will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, interaction of the B cell with a T helper cell is necessary to produce पूरा सक्रियण of the b कोशिका and, therefore, antibody generation following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies are released into the blood and tissue fluids, as well as अनेक secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms.
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically made of basic structural units—each साथ two large heavy chains and two small light chains.
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains, and several different kinds of antibodies, जिससे are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform अलग भूमिकाएँ, and help direct the appropriate immune response for each different type of foreign object they encounter.
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar, a small region at the tip of the protein is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय, allowing लाखो of antibodies साथ slightly different tip structures, or antigen binding sites, to exist.
इस region is known as the hypervariable region.
Each of these variants can bind to a अलग antigen.
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens.
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a नियत of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ), followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene, which create further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another, बनाना a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region.
This allows a single antibody to be used by several different parts of the immune प्रणाली.
The symbol used by the zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The Zodiac Killer was a serial killer who संचालित in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
The killer 's identity remains unknown.
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, Vallejo, Lake Berryessa, and San Francisco between December 1968 and अक्तूबर 1969.
Four men and three women between the ages of 16 और 29 यहूद targeted.
The कातिल originated the नाम `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting letters sent to the local Bay Area press.
These अक्षर शामिल चार cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms भेजा, तभी one has been definitively solved.
Suspects have been named by law enforcement and amateur investigators, but no conclusive evidence has surfaced.
In April 2004, the San Francisco Police विभाग marked the case `` inactive '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
The case also remains open in the city of Vallejo, as well as in Napa काउंटी और solano काउंटी.
The कैलिफ़ोर्निया विभाग of Justice has maintained an open case file on the Zodiac murders since 1969.
Jennings is a small city in और the मोहल्ला सीट of जेफरसन डेविस Parish, Louisiana, United States, near Lake Charles.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 10,383 at the 2010 census, a small decline from the 2000 tabulation.
The city is 68 प्रतिशत श्वेत.
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area, which includes all of Jefferson डेविस मोहल्ला.
It is also part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings Combined Statistical क्षेत्रफल.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the manipulation of matter on an atomic and molecular scale.
The earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and अणुओं लिये fabrication of macroscale उत्पाद, भी अभी referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently स्थापित by the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale, and so the परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.
It is इसलिए आम to देखिए the बहुवचन रूप `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including industrial and military ), सरकारें have invested अरबों of डॉलर in nanotechnology research.
Through its National Nanotechnology Initiative, the USA has invested 3.7 अरब dollars.
The European Union has invested 1.2 billion and Japan 750 million dollars.
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very व्यापक, सहित फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as surface science, organic chemistry, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated research and applications are equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly, from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to सीधा कंट्रोल of पदार्थ on the atomic scale.
वैज्ञानिकों फिलहाल बहस the future implications of nanotechnology.
nanotechnology may be समर्थ to बनाएँ अनेक नई सामग्री और डिवाइस साथ a विशाल दायरा of अनुप्रयोग, ऐसे as in आयुर्विज्ञान, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, biomaterials और उर्जा उत्पादन.
on the अन्य हाथ, nanotechnology उठाता अनेक of the वही मुद्दे as कोई नई प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित चिंताएं परिचय the toxicity और पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials, और उनके संभावित प्रभाव on वैश्विक अर्थशास्त्र, as खूब as अटकलें परिचय विभिन्न doomsday scenarios.
These चिंताएं have led to a बहस among advocacy groups and governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
मैप of the Eastern Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the former communist states of Central and Eastern Europe, generally the सोवियत संघ and the countries of the Warsaw Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote groupings of states aligned with the Soviet Union, although these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe.
The New Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009 took place on नवम्बर 3, 2009.
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and थी होने challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस Christie, Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
Christie won the election, with about 48.5 percent of the vote, to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent लिये daggett.
Christie won the largest margin for a first term Republican since 1969.
Christie assumed office on जनवरी 19, 2010.
This was the first election to fill the newly created office of लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल.
the उम्मीदवार लिये राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल यहूद joined साथ as a सिंगल चुनाव, so कि मतदाता किया नहीं have the अवसर to विभाजित the टिकट.
Kim Guadagno, Christie 's running mate, became New Jersey 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration.
Health care in the United States is provided by many पृथक संगठन.
Health care facilities are largely owned and operated by private सेक्टर businesses.
Health insurance for पब्लिक sector employees is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, the Children 's Health Insurance Program, and the Veterans Health Administration.
Most of the population under 65 is insured by उनके or a family member 's employer, some buy health insurance on their own, and the remainder are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National Institutes of Health in 2013, the United States was at or near the bottom in infant mortality, heart and lung disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, ऐसे मुद्दे place the U.S. at the bottom of the list for life expectancy.
On average, a U.S. male can be अपेक्षित to live almost four fewer years than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the United States spent more on health care प्रति capita ( $ 7,146 ), और अधिक on स्वास्थ्य care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund क्रमित the संयुक्त States last in the quality of health care among similar countries, and notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents, 16.3 % of the population, were uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 लाख निवासियों, 16.1 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, in 2009 ).
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The United States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that does not guarantee access to health care for its population. ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of Mexico, Turkey, and the United राज्य, सब oecd देशों था achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000 unnecessary मौतों प्रत्येक साल in the संयुक्त States.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high medical expenses.
A 2013 study found that परिचय 25 % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित bankruptcy due to medical expenses, and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence.
On कूच 23, 2010, the रोगी Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major changes in health insurance.
In physiology, body water is the water content of the इंसान देह.
A significant fraction of the human body is जल.
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total amount of water in a man of average weight ( 70 kilograms ) is लगभग 40 लीटर, averaging 57 प्रतिशत of his total body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as high as 75 percent of the body weight, but it progressively decreases from birth to old age, most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life.
Also, obesity decreases the percentage of water in the body, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
These figures are statistical averages, so are illustrative, and like सब biostatistics, होगा vary with things like type of population, age and number of people sampled, and methodology.
So there is not, and can not be, a फिगर कि is exactly the same for all people, for this or any other physiological measure.
For example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for नर्स gives a figure of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, which approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where body water is affected, the compartment or compartments that have changed can give clues to the nature of the problem.
Body water is regulated by hormones, including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ), aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide.
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human Physiology, body water is broken bas into the following compartments:
intracellular द्रव ( 2/3 of body water ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 litres of द्रव, परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular, जिससे amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
जैक्सन 's texts states 70 % of body fluid is intracellular.
extracellular fluid ( 1/3 of body water ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, for a 40 litre body, about 15 litres is extracellular, which amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
प्लाज्मा ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per Guyton 's उदाहरण, of the 15 litres of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
इस amounts to 20 %, the same as per Netter 's Atlas.
अंतरालीय fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a. `` third space, '' normally उपेक्षित in calculations )
Contained अंदर organs, such as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal, peritoneal, and ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to reflect a व्यक्ति 's overall emotional evaluation of his or her own worth.
It is a निर्णय of oneself as well as an attitude toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example, `` I am competent, '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph, despair, अभिमान and shame.
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is कया we सोचो about the self ; self-esteem, is the positive or negative evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it. ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative dimension of the स्वः कि शामिल जज्बात of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is also closely associated with self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition that a व्यक्ति रै जिससे represents their judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, मॉरिस rosenberg और social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the experience of being competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the योग of self-confidence ( a feeling of personal capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of their ability to face life 's challenges, to understand and solve problems, and their right to achieve happiness, and be given respect.
As a social मनोवैज्ञानिक construct, self-esteem is आकर्षक because researchers have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
in जोड, self-esteem has also been treated as an important outcome due to its close relation with psychological well-being ( Marsh 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example, `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent ( for example, `` I believe I am a bad person, and feel ख़राब परिचय खुद in सामान्य '' ).
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring व्यक्तित्व characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), though normal, short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge, is the मौलिक organisational unit of Freemasonry.
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand Lodge, but is subject to its direction तभी in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction.
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the United Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique privilege to operate as time immemorial i.e. without such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London, although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A Freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge, in any jurisdiction ( i.e. under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own.
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to Master Masons ( that is, freemasons जो have attained the अनुक्रम 's third degree ).
He is first usually required to check, and certify, the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership.
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge to work the three मौलिक डिग्री of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington समूह सीमित is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in St Helens, United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group.
Prior to its acquisition by एनएसजी in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the London Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one, particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source, and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of कोई अन्य रूप of अभिव्यक्ति, especially parts of artistic works : elements of a painting, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar और a आम साल starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.
Black pepper ( पाइपर nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is approximately in diameter, अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( सूखी पके seeds ).
ब्लैक pepper is देशी to south India, and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded मसाला.
It is one of the सबसे आम मसाले added to European cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, not to be confused with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
it is in the modern world, often paired with salt.
Fire hydrant in Charlottesville, Virginia, USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the संयुक्त राज्य or as a जॉनी पंप in नई यॉर्क City ), is an active fire protection measure, and a source of water provided in most urban, suburban and rural areas with municipal water service to enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since firefighters चाहिए be समर्थ to अधिक rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property.
The concept of fire plugs dates to at least the 17th century.
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure जल to लड़ो fires.
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well, and be transported from the well to the fire by बाल्टी brigades or, later, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, normally redwood, which over समय came to be known as fire plugs.
The location of the प्लग होता प्रायः be recorded or marked so that it could be reused in future fires.
इस is the सोर्स of the colloquial term fire plug still used for fire hydrants today.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed water mains साथ छेद drilled at intervals, equipped साथ risers, allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level.
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff Sr., Chief Engineer of the फिलाडेल्फिया जल works around the year 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet आउटलेट और was of `` wet barrel '' design with the valve in the top.
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant, but this can not be सत्यापित क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in Washington D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the head of state and head of government अंतर्गत दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's संविधान.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of state was called the राज्य President.
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly, the निम्नतर हाउस of पार्लियामेंट, और is प्रायः the नेता of the largest party, which has been the African National Congress since the first non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994.
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct भूमिका of प्रधान मंत्री, लकिन the two roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office.
The 1993 and later constitutions हद the president 's time in office to two five-year terms.
The first President to be निर्वाचित अंतर्गत the नई constitution was Nelson Mandela, and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), there was a Government of National Unity, in which an MP इससे the largest विपक्ष पार्टी थी हकदार to a स्थिति as Deputy President.
Along with Thabo Mbeki, the पिछला राज्य अध्यक्ष, f.w. de klerk भी परोसा as Deputy President, in his capacity as the leader of the National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
But De Klerk later resigned and went into विपक्ष साथ उसके party.
A voluntary गठबन्धन सरकारी continues to मौजूद under the new constitution ( adopted in 1996 ), although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.
Special education or special needs शिक्षा is the शिक्षा of विद्यार्थी with special needs in a way that addresses the students ' individual differences and needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures, adapted equipment and materials, accessible settings, and other interventions designed to help learners with special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school और जातियाँ than होता be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include चुनौतियां साथ सीखना, communication challenges, emotional and behavioral disorders, physical disabilities, and developmental disorders.
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional educational services ऐसे as अलग approaches to शिक्षण, उपयोग of प्रौद्योगिकी, a specifically adapted teaching area, or resource room.
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different educational programs, but the पद `` खास शिक्षा '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically indicate निर्देश of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom, and gifted education is handled separately.
In most developed countries, educators are modifying teaching methods and environments so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments.
Special education in developed countries is often regarded less as a `` place '' and more as `` a range of services, उपलब्धियाँ in प्रत्येक school. ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve academic उपलब्धि for many students.
The opposite of special शिक्षा is general education.
General education is the standard curriculum presented with standard teaching methods and बगैर अतिरिक्त supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as Schwartz György ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate, investor, and philanthropist.
He is the chairman of Soros Fund प्रबन्धन.
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
He is known as `` The Man Who Broke the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी of his in investment profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave away over $ 8 billion to human अधिकारों, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य, और शिक्षा causes.
He played a significant भूमिका in the शांतिपूर्ण transition from communism to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of Europe 's largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest.
Soros is also the chairman of the Open Society Institute.
An actor portraying सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी speaking into an early model telephone.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the history of which involves a collection of दावा और counterclaims.
The development of the modern electrical telephone involved an सरणी of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies.
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device, to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current, to successful experiments with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and थामस वाटसन, और आखिरकार to commercially कामयाब telephones in the late 19th century.
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 years of postgraduate study beyond the स्नातक 's उपाधि ( BFA ), although the term of study will vary by country or by university.
The MFA is a creative degree usually awarded as a टर्मिनल degree in visual arts, creative writing, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing arts.
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing प्रकृति with the program often culminating in a major work or performance.
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally required a bachelor 's degree prior to प्रवेश, लकिन अनेक do नहीं आवश्यकता कि the undergraduate प्रमुख be the same as the MFA field of study.
The most important admissions requirement has often महरूम a नमूना पोर्टफोलियो or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the निपुण of Arts in that the MFA, while an academic program, centers around practice in the particular field, whereas programs leading to the MA usually center on the scholarly, academic, or critical study of the field.
Additionally, in the United States, an MFA is पहचाना as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual Art, Design, Dance, Theatre, Film/Video, New Media, and Creative Writing - meaning that it is considered to be the highest degree in its field, and is used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines.
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts, notably in the मामला of म्यूज़िक प्रदर्शन, where the MFA is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to नोट that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production and continued academic research, some universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing, visual arts, new media, design and theater.
While this has had an effect in रचनात्मक लिखने, और to a lesser extent in design and new media, the influx of graduates from practice-based PhD programs has not appreciably changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an ongoing contentious topic, and is the frequent subject of अकादमिक panels, विशेषकर at the annual College Art Association conference.
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms that the PhD is not required as a terminal उपाधि in the visual arts.
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945.
The two कार्यक्रम are the only use of nuclear weapons in war to date.
Following a firebombing campaign that नष्ट अनेक जापानी शहरों, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan.
The war in Europe ended when Nazi Germany signed its instrument of surrender on 8 may, लकिन the प्रशांत War continued.
Together with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China, the United States called for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945, threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
The Japanese government उपेक्षित this ultimatum, and the United States deployed two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project.
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first two to four months of the bombings, the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी, साथ roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that, of the people who died on the day of the explosion, 60 % died from फ्लैश or ज्वाला burns, 30 % इससे गिरना debris and 10 % from other causes.
During the following महीने, large numbers died from the effect of burns, radiation sickness, and other injuries, compounded by illness.
In a US estimate of the total immediate and short term cause of death, 15–20 % died from radiation sickness, 20–30 % from burns, and 50–60 % from other injuries, compounded by illness.
in दोनो शहरों, most of the dead were civilians, although Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison.
On 15 August, six days after the bombing of Nagasaki, Japan announced its surrender to the allies, signing the Instrument of Surrender on 2 September, officially ending World War II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war Japan 's adopting Three Non-Nuclear Principles, forbidding the nation from nuclear armament.
The role of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and their ethical justification are स्टिल debated.
Mohandas Karamchand गांधी ( ; 2 अक्तूबर 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi, was the preeminent leader of Indian nationalism in British-ruled India.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, गांधी led इण्डिया to स्वतंत्रता और प्रेरित आंदोलनों for non-violence, civil rights and freedom across the world.
The son of a senior सरकारी आधिकारिक, गांधी थी born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in coastal Gujarat, and trained in law in London.
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the civil rights of Muslim and हिन्दू इंडियंस in South Africa, using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed.
Returning to India in 1915, he set about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e. basing politics on धर्म ) he reached out widely to all religious groups.
He became a leader of Muslims protesting the declining status of the खिलाफत.
Assuming leadership of the भारतीय नेशनल कॉंग्रेस in 1921, गांधी led देशभर campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women 's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, increasing economic self-reliance, and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the Dandi Salt March in 1930, and later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942, दौरान संसार युद्ध II.
he was imprisoned for that and for numerous other political offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence and truth in all situations, and advocated that others do the same.
He saw the villages as the core of the true India and promoted self-sufficiency ; he किया नहीं support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He जिया modestly in a self-sufficient आवासीय community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl, woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha.
His chief राजनैतिक दुश्मन in Britain was Winston Churchill, who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a समर्पित शाकाहारी, और undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification and political mobilization.
In his last year, unhappy at the partition of India, Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between मुसलमान, Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan.
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram Godse who विचार गांधी was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims.
30 January is observed as Martyrs ' Day in India.
The honorific Mahatma ( `` Great आत्मा '' ) was applied to him by 1914.
In इण्डिया he was also called Bapu ( `` Father '' ).
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his जन्मदिवस, 2 October, is commemorated there as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence.
गांधी 's दर्शनशास्त्र was not theoretical but one of pragmatism, that is, practicing his principles in the moment.
Asked to give a message to the people, he would respond, `` My life is my message. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – may 10, 1977 ), born Lucille Fay LeSueur, was an American actress in film, television and theatre.
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on Broadway, क्रॉफर्ड was signed to a motion picture contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925.
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her parts, Crawford began a अभियान of self-publicity और became nationally ज्ञात as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, Crawford 's fame rivaled, and later outlasted, MGM सहयोगियों norma शियर्र और Greta Garbo.
Crawford often played hardworking young women who find रोमांस and financial success.
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well received by Depression -era audiences and were popular साथ महिलाओं.
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest paid women in the United States, but her films began losing money and by the end of the 1930s वो थी labeled `` बक्सा दफ्तर poison ''.
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen, Crawford staged a वापसी by अभिनीत in मिल्ड्रेड पियर्स ( 1945 ), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In 1955, she became involved with the pepsi-cola Company through her marriage to company Chairman Alfred Steele.
After his death in 1959, Crawford was elected to fill his vacancy on the board of directors लकिन थी forcibly retired in 1973.
वो जारी एक्टिंग in film and television regularly through the 1960s, when her performances became fewer ; after the release of the British horror film Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, after which unflattering photographs were published, Crawford withdrew from पब्लिक जीवन और became increasingly reclusive जबतक उसके death in 1977.
Crawford शादीशुदा four times.
Her first three marriages ended in divorce ; the last ended साथ the death of husband Alfred Steele.
She अपनाया पाँच children, one of whom was reclaimed by his birth mother.
Crawford 's relationships with her two older children, Christina and Christopher, यहूद acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two and, बाद क्रॉफर्ड 's मौत, क्रिस्टीना लिखा a `` tell-all '' memoir, Mommie Dearest, in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford.
She was voted the दसवाँ महानतम female star in the history of American cinema by the American Film Institute.
1910 Buick Tonneau without tonneau कवर
1903 Ford Model a rear-door Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover used to protect unoccupied passenger seats in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup truck.
Hard tonneau कवर खोलें by a hinging or folding mechanism while soft covers open by rolling up.
The tonneau cover is used to छिपाते कार्गो.
When the cover is pulled out, it keeps items out of the sun and provides extra security by keeping personal items out of sight, as खूब as shielding the ड्राइवर इससे दृश्य.
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to भेजें और पढ़ा text-based messages of up to 140 characters, known as `` tweets ''.
Twitter was created in March 2006 by Jack Dorsey and by July, the सोशल नेटवर्किंग साईट was launched.
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity, with over 500 million registered users as of 2012, generating over 340 लाख tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day.
Since its launch, Twitter has become one of the टेन सबसे visited websites on the Internet, and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet. ''
Unregistered users can read tweets, while registered users can post tweets through the website interface, SMS, or a range of apps for mobile devices.
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco, with अतिरिक्त सर्वर और कार्यालयों in नई York City, Boston, and San Antonio.
The hangover is a 2009 अमरीकी कॉमेडी film, co-produced and directed by Todd Phillips and written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise.The film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Heather Graham, Justin Bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck, Stu दाम और एलन गार्नर, जो travel to Las Vegas for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage.
However, फिल, stu और Alan have no memory of the previous night 's events and must find Doug before the wedding can take place.
Lucas and Moore wrote the स्क्रिप्ट बाद कार्यपालिका निर्माता क्रिस bender 's dost disappeared and had a large bill after being sent to a strip club.
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the स्टुडियो लिये $ 2 लाख, फिलिप्स और Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to include a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser, and also including boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 days, and during filming, the तीन main actors ( Cooper, Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The Hangover was released on June 5, 2009, becoming a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009, with a विश्वव्यापी gross of over US $ 467 million.
Critics praised the film 's comedic दृष्टिकोण लकिन criticized it लिये इसके vulgarity.
The film won the Golden Globe Award लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र – musical or Comedy, and received multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world, as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy ever in the United States, surpassing a record previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 सालो and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
Out of all R-rated films, it is the तीसरा highest-grossing ever in the U.S., behind only The Passion of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded.
A sequel, The Hangover Part II, was released in 2011, and a third and final film, the hangover भाग iii, is set for release in 2013.
कार्यक्रम involving meiosis, showing chromosomal crossover
meiosis ( ) is a खास type of cell division necessary for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes.
The cells produced by meiosis are गैमीट or spores.
in अनेक organisms, including all animals and land plants ( but not some other groups such as fungi ), gametes are called sperm and egg cells.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a number of similarities with the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete, compared साथ the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically unique ) haploid cells, compared with the two ( genetically एकसमान ) द्विगुणित cells produced from mitosis.
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one from the organism 's माँ और एक इससे its father.
The cell divides twice, potentially producing up to four अगुणित कोशिकाएं containing one copy of each chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases, such as the formation of oocytes in mammals, only one of the possible चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं survives. )
In animals the haploid cell resulting from meiosis is a पुरूष or female gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete cells is a unique mixture of maternal and paternal DNA, resulting in औलाद that are genetically distinct from either parent.
This gives rise to जेनेटिक विविधता in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act, but, as described below in Section 6, Origin and function of meiosis, the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis.
It is also noteworthy कि दौरान meiosis, specific genes are more highly transcribed, and these are called the meiome, the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which समजात chromosome pairing, synapse and recombination occur.
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mrna ( the meiome ), however, there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g. selective usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome और translational controls determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication, creating from the maternal and paternal versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies, sister chromatids, संलग्न at the centromere region.
In the beginning of meiosis the maternal and paternal homologs जोड़ी to प्रत्येक other.
Then they typically exchange parts by समजात recombination leading to crossovers of DNA between the maternal and paternal versions of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of each जोड़ी of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs to विपरीत poles of the cell.
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into two daughter cells, each containing a haploid number of गुणसूत्रों composed of two chromatids.
बाद the recombined मातृ और पैतृक homologs have अलग into the दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, a दूसरी गोलाकार of कोशिका प्रभाग occurs.
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids making up each homolog are separated and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, for example when a sperm enters an egg cell, two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the father each contribute one half of the set of chromosomes that make up the नई offspring 's genome.
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis, a type of cell प्रभाग प्रयुक्त by eukaryotes जैसे plants and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells.
In all plants and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively बगैर undergoing fertilization.
Boxing ( pugilism, prize fighting, the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat sport in which two people engage in a contest of strength, speed, reflexes, endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands.
Amateur boxing is an ओलम्पिक और राष्ट्रमंडल खेल and is a common fixture in most of the major international games - it also has its own World Championships.
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a श्रेणी of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम, resigns by throwing in a towel, or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
The birth घंटा of मुक्केबाज़ी as a sport may be its acceptance by the ancient Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC.
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights, largely in Great Britain, to the forerunner of modern boxing in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States.
In 2004, ESPN ranked मुक्केबाज़ी as the सबसे difficult sport in the world.
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes form depending on the other words to जिससे it relates.
It is an instance of inflection, and usually involves making the value of some grammatical category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between different words or भाग of the वाक्य.
For example, in मानक English, one may say I am or he is, but not `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
This is because the grammar of the language requires that the क्रिया और its subject agree in person.
The pronouns I and he हैं पहला and third person respectively, as are the verb forms am and is.
The verb form must be selected so that it रै the वही person as the subject.
The agreement based on overt grammatical categories as ऊपर is औपचारिक agreement, in contrast to notional agreement, which is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase The United States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement, भी though it is formally plural.
This is a list of places नीचे औसत समुद्र level that are on land.
Places in tunnels, mines, basements, dug holes ( also with open sky ), under water, under ice, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of समुद्र tide इत्यादि. हैं नहीं शामिल.
All figures are in meters नीचे sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in Yakima, Washington ) is a best-selling American author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
Over 140 million copies of her books are in छपाई throughout the world, and four have become made-for-TV-movies.
macomber थी the inaugural विजेता of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 and has been awarded both a Romance Writers of America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in Baltimore County, Maryland, United States.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The community lies to the वेस्ट of बाल्टीमोर along the city 's border.
catonsville is the घर of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County ( UMBC ), a public research university with over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to Black 's Law Dictionary, is `` a व्यक्ति सीखे in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law. ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government of a society to correct wrongs, maintain the स्थिरता of राजनैतिक और सोशल प्राधिकार, और deliver justice.
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve विशिष्ट individualized problems, or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e., hire ) lawyers to perform legal services.
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, and so it can be treated यहाँ in तभी the सबसे general terms.
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales भुजा of cutco Corporation, an Olean, New York based cutlery manufacturer.
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States federal law requiring covered employers to provide employees job-protected और unpaid छोड़ for qualified medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and family reasons include : personal or family illness, family military छोड़, गर्भावस्था, अपनाना, or the foster care placement of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the मजदूरी और Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.
The bill was a major part of President विधेयक Clinton 's agenda in his first term.
President Clinton signed the bill into law on फ़रवरी 5, 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C. sec. 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5, 1993, six months later.
The FMLA was intended `` to balance the demands of the workplace with the needs of families. ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी, जनक, जीवनसाथी or चाइल्ड, or लिये pregnancy or care of a newborn child, or for adoption or foster care of a child.
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave, an employee must have been at the business at least 12 months, and worked at least 1,250 hours over the past 12 months, and work at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles.
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees, but certain categories of employees are excluded, including elected officials and their personal staff members.
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, and कंबोडिया इससे 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
This war followed the First Indochina War and was fought between North Vietnam, समर्थित by इसके कम्युनिस्ट allies, और the सरकारी of South Vietnam, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF ), a lightly armed South Vietnamese communist common front directed by the North, largely fought a guerrilla war against anti-communist शक्तियां in the प्रदेश.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) सगाई in a अधिक conventional युद्ध, at times committing large units into battle.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy operations, involving ground forces, artillery, and airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the युद्ध as a way to prevent a communist takeover of South Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment.
The North Vietnamese government and Viet Cong were fighting to reunify Vietnam under communist rule.
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war, fought initially against France, backed by the U.S., and later against South Vietnam, which it regarded as a u.S. puppet state.
American military advisors arrived in what was then French Indochina शुरूआत in 1950.
U.S. भागीदारी escalated in the early 1960s, with troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
u.S. combat units were deployed beginning in 1965.
Operations spanned international borders, साथ लाओस and Cambodia heavily bombed.
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968, at the time of the Tet अप्रिय.
After this, U.S. ground forces were gradually withdrawn as भाग of a नीति known as Vietnamization.
Despite the Paris Peace Accords, signed by all पार्टियों in जनवरी 1973, लड़ जारी.
U.S. सैन्य भागीदारी ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the Case–Church Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
The capture of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's Army in April 1975 marked the end of the war, and North and South वियतनाम यहूद reunified the following year.
The war exacted a huge human cost in terms of fatalities ( देखिए Vietnam War casualties ).
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians मारे vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 Laotians, and 58,220 u.S. service members also died in the conflict.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km दौरान the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's surface or crust, which allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are प्रायः not created where two tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This type of volcanism falls अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also been explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose many जोखिमों, not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft, in particular those साथ जेट engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
A deep pothole on नई यॉर्क City 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the Western United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the surface of a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away, leaving a छेद.
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the very small tubes in the kidney that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the सबसे आम प्रकार of kidney cancer in adults, responsible for approximately 80 % of cases.
It is also known to be the most lethal of all the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is most commonly a radical or partial nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year survival rate is 60-70 %, but this is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to विकिरण चिकित्सा and chemotherapy, although some cases respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC.
Estée Lauder कंपनियाँ, inc. is a manufacturer and marketer of prestige skincare, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.
The company has its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, New यॉर्क City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a परत of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue.
the peritoneum दोनो supports the abdominal organs and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal muscles, diaphragm and pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal गुहा, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal गुहा कि हैं स्तिथ पीछे the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the kidneys ), and those structures below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
आधुनिक 2.5 '' ssd प्रयुक्त in उपभोक्ता लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप कंप्यूटर.
DDR sdram आधारित SSD.
Max और.
PCI attached IO त्वरक SSD
pci-e, dram, and NAND based SSD.
It uses an external power supply to make the dram non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk, though it contains no actual `` disk '' of any kind ) is a data storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently.
SSD technology uses electronic interfaces compatible with traditional block input/output ( i/o ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard डिस्क ड्राइव ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी disks, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared with electromechanical disks, ssds हैं typically कम susceptible to शारीरिक shock, much quieter, have lower access time, and less latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012, SSDs are still परिचय 7 to 8 टाइम्स अधिक expensive per unit of storage than HDDs.
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव, यूँ permitting simple replacement in common applications.
, most SSDs use NAND-based flash memory, which retains आंकड़ा बगैर power.
For applications requiring fast access, but not necessarily आंकड़ा persistence after power loss, SSDs may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ).
Such devices may employ separate power स्त्रोत, such as batteries, to maintain data after power loss.
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard डिस्क ड्राइव और an ssd संचय to improve प्रदर्शन of frequently accessed data.
These devices may offer near-SSD प्रदर्शन लिये अनेक applications.
सामन roe ( बाएँ ) और sturgeon caviar ( right ) served with mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
Ossetra caviar, salmon creme fraiche, आलू shallot croquette, basil oil, egg whites and yolks
Caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, is a product made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the acipenseridae परिवार.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, साथ pasteurization reducing its culinary and economic value.
Traditionally the term caviar refers only to roe from wild sturgeon in the Caspian and Black समंदर ( बेलुगा, ossetra और sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, और other species of sturgeon.
Caviar is considered a luxury delicacy and is eaten as a garnish or a spread.
In 2012, caviar sold for $ 2,500 per pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo.
The SEC Network is a television syndication network featuring live broadcasts of college football और बास्केट कार्यक्रम from the Southeastern Conference.
It is owned और संचालित by ESPN Plus and is shown in more than 50 percent of households in the United States, mostly Southeastern United States markets.
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot that was former घर to the raycom खेल सेक खेल of the सप्ताह.
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations, regional sports संजाल, as खूब as on ESPN GamePlan, ESPN Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
The SEC Network is also available in कनाडा via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV.
The SEC Network uses the वही on-screen graphics currently used by ESPN on ABC, a version of ESPN 's graphics package.
SEC Network 's football प्रोग्रामिंग स्टिल उपयोग a शीर्षक सुरक्षित क्षेत्रफल because most of its affiliates do not Letterbox their Standard Definition feeds, while ESPN 's television networks have allowed their graphics to abandon the title safe, but letterbox for SD viewers.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season, सेक संजाल 's ग्राफिक्स have been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format.
This is also being used for the 2013 Basketball season, but had still adapted the former 4:3-safe graphics format लिये the 2012 सेक फ़ुटबॉल season.
The 1990s, pronounced and also known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '', थी a दशक कि began on January 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
It was the 10th and last decade of the 20th century and the 100th and पिछला दशक of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of the Internet during the second half of the decade.
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity, though many parts of the so-called Third World faced various problems including genocide, AIDS and new or continuing ethnic तनाव और civil wars.
culturally बोलना the दशक थी characterized by the वृद्धि of बहुसंस्कृतिवाद और वैकल्पिक मीडिया.
Movements such as grunge, the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young people during the decade, aided by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism, the beginning of the widespread proliferation of new media such as the Internet, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world, and within countries.
Income inequality among countries in the world rose sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s, before levelling off and then falling after 2000.
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus, the former two जिससे led to the rwandan नरसंहार and Bosnian genocide, respectively.
The United राज्य began इसके current military occupation of the Middle East during the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply.
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive, though the Irish Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 साथ the शुभ शुक्रवार अनुबंध बाद 30 सालो of violence.
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid native to the wilderness और रिमोट क्षेत्रों of उत्तर America, Eurasia, and North Africa.
It is the largest member of its family, with males averaging, और females.
It is similar in general appearance and proportions to a German shepherd, or sled dog, but has a larger head, narrower छाती, longer legs, straighter tail and bigger paws.
Its winter fur is long and bushy, and predominantly a mottled gray in colour, हालांकि nearly pure white, red, or brown to black also occur.
भीतर the genus canis, the धूसर भेड़िया represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ), as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to hunting large prey, its more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior.
It is a सोशल एनिमल, यात्राएं in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair, accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring.
The gray wolf is typically an apex predator throughout इसके दायरा, साथ only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It feeds primarily on large ungulates, though it also eats smaller animals, livestock, carrion, and garbage.
The धूसर भेड़िया is एक of the संसार 's सबसे well researched animals, with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife species.
It has a long history of association साथ इंसानो, having महरूम despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes.
It is the sole ancestor of the dog, which was first domesticated in the Middle East.
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many human societies, the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people, mainly children, but this is unusual, as wolves are relatively few, live away from people, and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to, though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level, and is therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern.
the रोमन साम्राज्य ( ) थी the post- रिपब्लिकन काल of the प्राचीन Roman civilization, characterised by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, had been destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the रोमन Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first दो सदियां of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
it reached its greatest expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors aurelian और diocletian.
ईसाइयों रोज़ to power in the 4th century, during which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century, the eastern half continued as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed, विशेषकर यूरोपीय, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public sector, with control and funding coming from three स्तर : लोकल, राज्य, और संघीय, in that order.
Child education is compulsory, and there are also a large number and wide variety of higher education institutions throughout the country कि एक can चुनें to attend, दोनो सरेआम और privately administered.
Public education is universally उपलब्धियाँ.
School curricula, funding, teaching, employment, and other policies are set through locally elected school boards with jurisdiction over स्कूल जिले साथ अनेक directives इससे राज्य विधानमंडलों.
School districts are usually separate from other local jurisdictions, साथ स्वतंत्र officials and budgets.
शैक्षणिक standards and standardized testing decisions are usually made by state governments.
The ages for compulsory शिक्षा vary by state.
It begins from ages पाँच to आठ और ends from ages fourteen to eighteen.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in पब्लिक स्कूलों, state-certified private schools, or an approved home school program.
In most public and private schools, education is divided into three levels : elementary school, middle स्कूल ( sometimes पुकारा जूनियर high school ), and high school ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost all schools at these levels, children are divided by आयु समूह into ग्रेड, ranging इससे kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the final year of high school.
The exact age range of students in these grade levels varies slightly from area to area.
post-secondary शिक्षा, बेहतर ज्ञात as `` कॉलेज `` in the United States, is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school system, and is described in a separate section below.
Government supported, free public schools for all started being established बाद the क्रान्ति, and expanded in the 19th century, as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
By 1870, all states had free elementary schools, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th सदी drew nearer, states started passing laws to make schooling compulsory, and by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
Private schools continued to स्प्रेड दौरान this time, as well as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges.
The year of 1910 also saw the first true high schools.
During the rest of the 20th century, educational efforts centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education made the desegregation of elementary and high schools a नेशनल प्रधानता, while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college.
खास education was made into federal law in 1975.
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 made standardized testing a requirement, and in 1983, a commission was established to evaluate their results and propose a course of action.
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 थी विवादास्पद और इसके लक्ष्य proved to be unrealistic.
A commission established in 2006 evaluated higher शिक्षा, लकिन its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented.
Paul Bragg ( February 6, 1895 – December 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, was a पायोनियर in America’s wellness movement.
Health बिता प्रति capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care systems before Canada reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States खर्च much अधिक धन on स्वास्थ्य care than Canada, on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on स्वास्थ्य care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
in 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by government, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't लो into account population differences.
Studies have आइये to अलग conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all अध्ययन comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in कनाडा और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the U.S., but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World स्वास्थ्य Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the distribution of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of service for individuals receiving treatment, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life प्रत्याशा लिये canadians थी 80.34 सालो compared साथ 78.6 सालो for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The जो 's पढ़ाई विधि were criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent रपट by the congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा और टीप the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed अवरोध, और is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the sound waves it creates, it actually leads the advancing wavefront.
The sound source will pass by a stationary observer ( with a speed ) before the निरीक्षक दरअसल hears the ध्वनि it creates.
As a result, an observer in सामने of the source will detect
and an निरीक्षक पीछे the source.
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92, calculated from the cone angle of 20 degrees.
An observer hears the boom when the shock wave, on the edges of the कोन, crosses उसके or her location.
Mach कोन angle
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves created by an object traveling through the air faster than the गति of ध्वनि.
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound energy, sounding much like an explosion.
The crack of a सुपरसोनिक bullet passing overhead is an example of a sonic boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by Jay Leno that initially aired from May 25, 1992 to May 29, 2009, और resumed production on March 1, 2010.
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made its debut on May 25, 1992, three days following Johnny कार्सन 's रिटायरमेंट as मेजबान of the कार्यक्रम.
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank, California, and is broadcast Monday through शुक्रवार at 11:35 PM in the Eastern and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike Carson or his predecessor जोकर paar, लीनो only once utilized a guest host, preferring to host the series by himself.
On April 26, 1999, the show began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV, becoming the first American nightly बात दिखाएँ to be शॉट in ऊँची definition.
The show is शॉट in 16:9 aspect ratio.
The series, which followed the same basic format as that of his predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by comedy routines, interviews and performances ), ran until May 29, 2009, after which Leno was succeeded by Conan o'brien.
NBC signed Leno to a new सौदे लिये a nightly बात दिखाएँ in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled the jay लीनो दिखाएँ, debuted on September 14, 2009, following a similar format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor the Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected.
The network decided to move a condensed 30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot, and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision met with opposition from O'Brien, whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January 22, 2010, after which he began his own talk show on TBS.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and current incarnation, the sixth of the मताधिकार, on कूच 1, 2010.
RFID chip next to a अनाज of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer products, and implanted in pets, for पहचान purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक fields to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically stored information.
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field, and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at hundreds of मीटर.
Unlike a bar code, the tag करता नहीं necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID tags हैं प्रयुक्त in many industries.
An rfid टैग संलग्न to an automobile during production can be used to track its progress through the assembly line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have टैग injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted भीतर लोगों, the possibility of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
Id, ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund Freud 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे are the three theoretical constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described.
According to this model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical and moralizing role ; and the ego is the organized, realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you from doing certain things that your id may want you to do.
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, ego और super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one with actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` आर्थिक मॉडल '' और `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle `` and was formalized and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id ``.
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the ambiguity of the term `` unconscious `` and its many conflicting uses.
Air फ़ोर्स ROTC emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force, the other two being the United States Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and एयर फ़ोर्स Officer Training School ( OTS ).
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ), AFROTC is aligned under the jeanne M. holm बीच लिये अधिकारी accessions और नागरिक विकास at Maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The Holm Center, formerly known as the Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools ( afoats ), retains सीधा जिम्मेदारी for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest and oldest source of commissioned अधिकारियों for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC 's stated mission is to produce quality leaders for the u.S. Air Force.
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984 additional institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow their विद्यार्थी to attend afrotc classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university.
According to AFOATS HQ, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF दूसरी lieutenants, साथ afrotc enrollment ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments, '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the rank of colonel or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as both the Detachment Commander for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community.
Most colleges and universities will designate the AFROTC detachment as the Department of aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant professors of aerospace Studies ( APAS ), all active duty USAF officers in the ranks of major or captain.
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned अधिकारी होगा typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution.
Within AFROTC detachments, the विद्यार्थी ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into wings, groups, squadrons, and flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the first two years of training, and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training.
The AFROTC program is भी विभाजित into दो प्रशिक्षण कृत्यों : the अकादमिक Classroom Program ( Aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e., Leadership Laboratory, Physical Training, and other training ).
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper industry and also for कपड़ा industry to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The term `` density '' is not used in इसके परंपरागत भाव of mass per unit volume.
`` पेपर घनत्व '', rather, is a measure of the area density.
पेपर उत्पाद कि let छोटी or no लाइट pass through ( e.g. poster board ) are considered dense or heavy.
Paper products that allow some light to pass through ( e.g. tissue paper ) are considered lightweight.
In the pulp and paper industry, it is common to set a commercial paper यंत्र to उपज पेपर to a target paper density.
पेपर घनत्व can भी be प्रयुक्त to फर्क पेपर इससे paperboard as the latter प्रायः रै a grammage वृहद than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing paper density are commonly used:
Expressed in गामा प्रति वर्गाकार मीटर ( g/m2 ), paper density is also known as grammage.
This is the measure used in most parts of the संसार.
Expressed in शर्तें of the द्रव्यमान ( expressed as weight ) per number of sheets, it is known as basis weight.
The convention used in the United States and a few other countries using US paper sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( कच्चा, स्टिल uncut ) आधार आकार.
Japanese paper is expressed as the वज़न in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19, 1986 ) is an American basketball player for the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
वो is the younger sister of NBA player Anthony Parker.
She attended the University of टेनेसी और was drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the first woman to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She also became only the दूसरी खिलाड़ी to dunk in a WNBA game on June 22, 2008.
A versatile खिलाड़ी, she is mainly a forward, but was listed on Tennessee 's roster as a forward, center, and guard.
She was a starter on the महिला vols basketball team, winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships.
Parker won the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice award as the पसंदीदा मादा खिलाड़ी in the sports category.
And she was a अतिथि star on Figure It Out.
A food guide पिरामिड is a पिरामिड तराशा guide of healthy foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake for each food group.
The पहला खाना पिरामिड was published in Sweden in 1974.
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि in the साल 1992, was updated in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
Over 25 other countries and organisations have also published खाना पिरामिडों.
Hans Christian andersen ( ; प्रायः referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April 2, 1805August 4, 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet.
Although a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, and poems, Andersen is best remembered for his fairy tales, a literary genre he so mastered that he खुद रै become as mythical as the किस्से he लिखा.
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express विषयवस्तु that transcend age and nationality.
During his lifetime he was acclaimed for having delighted children worldwide and was feted by royalty.
Andersen 's fairy tales, which have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally embedded in the West 's collective consciousness, readily accessible to children, but पेश lessons of पुण्य और resilience in the फेस of adversity लिये mature readers as well.
They have प्रेरित गति pictures, plays, ballets, and animated films.
Two figures locking eyes in Caravaggio 's the Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two people look at each अन्य 's आँखें at the same time. ''
In human beings, eye contact is a form of nonverbal communication and is thought to have a large influence on social behavior.
Coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the पद रै come in the West to often define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication.
The customs and significance of eye contact vary widely between संस्कृतियों, साथ धार्मिक and social differences often altering its meaning greatly.
The study of eye contact is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
Bed bugs are parasitic insects of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to सदस्यों of the genus cimex of जिससे cimex lectularius, the common bed bug, is the best known as it prefers to feed on human blood although other Cimex species are specialized to other animals, e.g., bat bugs, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : गरम घरों और विशेषकर nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas.
Bed bugs are mainly active at night, but are नहीं exclusively nocturnal.
They usually फीड on उनके होस्ट without being noticed.
A क्रमांक of प्रतिकूल स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव may result from bed bug bites, including skin rashes, psychological effects, and allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs and the occurrence of संगत लक्षण.
Bed bugs have been known as human परजीवी for thousands of years.
At a point in the early 1940s, they were mostly eradicated in the developed world, but have increased in व्यापकता since 1995.
Because infestation of human habitats has been on the increase, bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, preceding Ezekiel, Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve.
( The order of the subsequent books differs somewhat in the Christian Old Testament ).
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world कि oppose God, while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant, four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah son of Amoz, but now scholars widely agree that the book is the work of three different authors - few विद्वानों इनकार इस दृश्य, और those कि do, do so लिये theological reasons.
The first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the babylonian captivity ; and the third, the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile, probably by multiple authors.
Oregon State University ( OSU ) is a coeducational, पब्लिक शोध university located in Corvallis, Oregon, United States.
The university offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees and a multitude of research opportunities.
There are more than 200 academic degree programs offered through the विश्वविद्यालयों.
OSU 's programs in microbiology, nuclear अभियान्त्रिकी, पारिस्थितिकी, वानिकी, पब्लिक health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs.
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is माना a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
More than 200,000 लोगों have attended OSU since its founding.
The Carnegie Foundation classifies ऑरेगॉन राज्य University as part of its top tier of research institutions.
As of 2008, OSU is one of only seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant और sun-grant संस्था, बनाना it एक of तभी दो us संस्थानों to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ).
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon विश्वविद्यालयों System, OSU receives more funding for research, annually, than all other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the मादा urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is भी ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals, which is also related to doubts over the अस्तित्व of the g-spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small, air-breathing land snail, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae, the एम्बर घोंघे.
The common name of the एम्बर घोंघे is based on the shell, which is translucent and when empty usually resembles amber in color.
This species is endemic to the संयुक्त States, specifically the state of Arizona and Utah, where it was first collected in the early 20th century.
It has been listed as endangered on the संयुक्त राज्य मछली और वन्यजीव Service list of endangered species since 8 August 1991.
This snail lives in wetlands, springs, and seeps, and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes, a meadow near Kanab, Utah, and Vasey 's स्वर्ग, a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो River within Grand Canyon National Park.
In its natural habitat it is rather polyphagous, feeding mainly on bacteria, plants and fungi, and reproduces during the summer.
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of कारकों ( सहित influence ), the kanab ambersnail रै been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado River.
The Spanish language is the second most used भाषा in the United States.
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are अध्यक्षों of चाइनीज, फ्रेंच, जर्मनी, Italian, Hawaiian, and the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, Spanish is the primary language spoken at home by almost 37 million people aged five or older, a figure more than दोगुना कि of 1990.
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language, as well as six million स्पेनी भाषा विद्यार्थी, composing the largest नेशनल spanish-speaking community outside of Mexico and making Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world.
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish speakers also speak English `` बहुत खूब, '' आधारित on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas that would later become the states of Florida, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, और कैलिफ़ोर्निया और of the स्पेनी explorers - जो छान क्षेत्रों of 42 राज्यs-.
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ), after the French and Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century, the Spanish language was बाद reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later waves of the Hispanic emigration, basically from Hispanic America, to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today.
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it थी यूँ in the source material ''.
sic may also refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a commune in Romania
SIC, the regional कोड for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of Jennifer Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the initial of मार्को Simoncelli.
SIC as an acronym may स्टैंड for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN प्रणाली लिये economic activities
शेटलैंड Islands Council
the Swiss Interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club, an Argentine rugby संघ क्लबों
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee समर्पित to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the field of आंकडे
Second-in-command in the field of विमानन
Sistema Interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति ग्रिड in Chile
Sociedade Independente de comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in Portugal
समुद्र आइल City, New Jersey, a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode, a mode of आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
शंघाई International Circuit, a motor racing venue in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a hypothetical computer प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC ( Sons Idées couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
southeastern इलिनोइस College, a two year Junior College in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College, Riverview, a Jesuit school in सिडनी, Australia
alt=Five smiling young girls in various poses wearing white smocks over thigh-length dresses of समान रंग to उनके hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and anime series features a cast of characters designed by Mia Ikumi.
The series takes place in Tokyo, Japan, where five adolescent girls, called Mew Mews, are infused with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth.
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series, Tokyo Mew Mew a la Mode, which introduces a new mew mew और a नई threat.
The Mew Mews are led by the main character, Ichigo Momomiya, whose first task is to gather the other four Mew mews : मिंट Aizawa, Lettuce Midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to becoming his girlfriend जबकि trying to छुपा her secret double life from him.
The श्रेणी antagonists include three aliens, Kish, Pie, and Tart, and their leader, Deep Blue.
Originally from Earth, the एलियंस यहूद forced to leave long ago due to deadly environmental changes.
They have returned to kill the humans, who they feel are destroying their planet, और reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth mew mew और, in the अनुपस्थिति of ichigo, the temporary leader of the Mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists, the Saint Rose Crusaders, a group of human teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make several attempts to kill Berry, eventually turning the local populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for टोकियो mew mew थी a स्टोरी called Tokyo Black Cat Girl that featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat स्टोरी of पाँच मादा superheroes, the character designs were redone to have a lighter, more colorful feel.
The main series characters were praised for being a perfect fit for the overall story, as well as for their cute appearances.
The characters introduced in a la Mode were also praised for their visual दिखावे, but criticized as being repeats of the original series.
The character Duke was also criticized for having a design reminiscent of the white supremacy group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( ऊपर ), वर्जिन गठन, southwestern Utah, USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of सामग्री at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that कारण mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by जल, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's क्रस्ट is extensive, लकिन the कुल योगदान of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust.
sedimentary रॉक्स are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are deposited in परतों as strata, forming a structure called bedding.
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is उपयोगी लिये सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural resources like कोयले, fossil fuels, drinking water or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source for scientific knowledge about the Earth 's history, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
The scientific discipline that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary rocks is पुकारा sedimentology.
Sedimentology is both part of geology और शारीरिक भूगोल and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences, such as pedology, geomorphology, geochemistry or structural geology.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of which fuse together into a longitudinal axis, the axial कंकाल, to जिससे the appendicular कंकाल is संलग्न.
Saint पैट्रिक ( ; ; आधुनिक ; ; c. 387 – 17 March c. 460 or c. 492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland.
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '', he is the primary patron saint of the island along with Saints Brigid and Columba.
Two authentic letters from him survive, from जिससे come the only generally accepted details of his life.
When he was about 16, he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to Ireland, where he जिया लिये छह सालो पहले escaping and returning to his family.
बाद बनने a मौलवी, he लौटे to northern and western Ireland as an ordained bishop, but little is known about the places where he worked.
By the seventh सदी, he था already come to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
Most available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies, और these are now not accepted without detailed criticism.
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432, ministered in ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( thought to mean palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the Scots, '' who died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can नहीं be fixed with certainty but, on a widespread interpretation, he was active as a missionary in Ireland during the second half of the 5th century.
He is generally credited with होने the पहला bishop of Armagh, Primate of All Ireland.
Saint Patrick 's Day is observed on March 17, the date of his death.
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland, as both a धार्मिक and, especially outside Ireland, secular holiday.
In the dioceses of Ireland, it is both a solemnity and a holy day of obligation ; outside आयरलैंड, it can be a जश्न of Ireland itself.
Line segments in the सुनहरी ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b, जब लगाई सटा to a वर्गाकार साथ पहलू of length a, will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a.
This illustrates the संबंध.
In mathematics and the arts, two quantities are in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger मात्रा to the छोटी एक.
The figure on the right illustrates the ज्यामितीय संबंध.
expressed algebraically:
where the Greek letter phi ( ) represents the golden ratio.
Its मान is:
The golden ratio is also called the golden section ( Latin : sectio ओरिया ) or सुनहरी औसत.
Other names include extreme and mean अनुपात, medial खण्ड, divine proportion, divine section ( Latin : sectio divina ), golden proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the form of the golden rectangle, in which the ratio of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have पढ़ाई the properties of the golden ratio, including its appearance in the dimensions of a regular pentagon and in a golden rectangle, which can be cut into a square and a smaller rectangle with the same aspect ratio.
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as खूब as man-made systems such as financial markets, in some cases based on dubious fits to data.
North Myrtle Beach is a coastal resort city in Horry County, South Carolina, United States.
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities north of Myrtle Beach, और serves as एक of the primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 13,752 at the 2010 census.
संसार युद्ध i ( wwi ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार युद्ध I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, austria-hungary और इटली ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of Europe.
More immediately, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major शक्तियां यहूद at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी states.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Camden is a नगर in Camden County, New Jersey, United States.
It is the county seat, located आरपार the Delaware River from Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी the city had a total population of 77,344, representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) from the 79,904 residents enumerated during the 2000 Census, which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the राज्य in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13, 1828, from portions of the now-defunct Newton Township, while the area was still part of Gloucester County.
On March 13, 1844, camden became part of the newly formed Camden County.
Although once a thriving center for manufacturing and उद्योग, camden is perhaps best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have महरूम jailed for corruption, the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000.
चूंकि 2005 the स्कूल प्रणाली और पुलिस विभाग have महरूम संचालित by the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा समाप्त in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 लोगों जबकि the national average was 455 per 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 प्रति छात्र ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 school year and two-thirds of the students graduate.
Two out of every five निवासियों are below the national poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, Elavil, Tryptizol, Laroxyl, Saroten, Sarotex, Lentizol, Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the most widely used TCA and has at least equal efficacy against depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a पढ़ाई from early 2001.
As well as reducing depressive symptoms, these types of tricyclics भी ease migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also ज्ञात to reduce aggression and violent behavior.
A computer is a general purpose device that can be प्रोग्रामित to carry आउट a finite set of arithmetic or logical operations.
Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than एक दयालु of प्रॉब्लम.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at least one processing element, typically a central प्रसंस्करण ईकाई ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The processing तत्व carries आउट गणित and logic operations, and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information.
Peripheral devices allow information to be retrieved from an external source, and the result of operations saved and पुनर्प्राप्त.
The first electronic digital computers यहूद विकसित between 1940 और 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States.
Originally वे यहूद the आकार of a large room, consuming as much power as several hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ).
In this era mechanical एनालॉग computers were used for military applications.
Modern computers based on एकीकृत circuits हैं लाखो to billions of times more capable than the early machines, and occupy a fraction of the space.
Simple computers are small enough to fit into मोबाईल डिवाइस, और मोबाईल computers can be powered by small batteries.
Personal computers in their various forms are icons of the सूचना आयु and are what most people think of as “computers.”
However, the embedded computers found in many devices from MP3 खिलाड़ी to fighter aircraft and from toys to industrial robots are the most numerous.
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the controversial विचार कि महिलाओं चाहिए नहीं work outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years.
It has several अन्य meanings as well.
It is a figure of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' थी संभवतः first used sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 states, `` By early 1949, TWA was—in the words of its new president, Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may तिथि as early as the 1910s.
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was first used by a `` dr. hertzler '' 40 सालो पहले.
`` Some forty years ago, Dr. Hertzler advanced a hypothesis which young women of आज seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy, ' he said, 'is to keep उसके barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated community भीतर समंदर township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 United States Census, the CDP 's population was 3,995.
University of Phoenix स्टेडियम, खोली August 1, 2006, is a multipurpose football stadium located in Glendale, Arizona.
It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League ( NFL ) and the सालाना Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it features the पहला fully retractable प्राकृतिक ग्रास playing सतह built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system.
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the भवन, allowing the संपूर्ण natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII, and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game, a खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक चार सालो, जिससे नियत the स्थान 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It होगा again मेजबान Super Bowl XLIX in 2015.
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming rights in September 2006, shortly after the stadium था खोली अंतर्गत the नाम Cardinals Stadium.
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is applied as a corporate sponsor, and not as the घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( जिससे has no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The stadium has also hosted the WWE event WrestleMania XXVI साथ 72,219 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति.
The event was held in the स्टेडियम on March 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence Joshua Chamberlain, was an American college professor from the State of Maine, जो volunteered दौरान the American Civil War to join the Union Army.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer, reaching the रैंक of ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य ( और brevet major general ).
For his gallantry at Gettysburg, he was awarded the पदक of सम्मान.
He was given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he entered राजनीती as a Republican and served four one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
He परोसा on the faculty, and as president, of his alma mater, Bowdoin College.
an inning, or पारी, is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – most notably cricket and baseball during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from scoring.
In cricket, the पद पारी is दोनो एकवचन और plural and is always spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s ''.
In baseball and softball, the एकवचन रूप is inning and only the plural takes an `` s ''.
In many other sports, the length of the game is dictated by a clock and टीमों swap offensive and defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item.
In baseball and cricket, however, one team, said to be `` batting '', attempts to score `` runs '' —see run ( baseball ) and run ( cricket ) —while the अन्य team, said to be `` fielding '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out.
The teams switch places बाद the क्षेत्ररक्षण team has succeeded in getting a fixed number of players out, making a clock unnecessary.
In cricket, the term innings is also used to refer to the play of one particular खिलाड़ी ( स्मिथ था a ग़रीब पारी, scoring only 12 ).
By extension, this term can be used in British English for almost any activity which takes a period of time ( The Liberal government had a good innings, but finally lost office in 1972, or You 've had a fair innings, now it 's my turn, meaning `` you have spoken for long पर्याप्त, अभी let me speak '' ).
It is also used in सन्दर्भ to किसी जो रै died at a reasonably बूढ़ा age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah, well.
जॉन थी 89.
At least he था a good innings ).
The baseball-derived parallel to this in American English is the पद at bat.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the term innings has been used in reference to cricket चूंकि at least 1735.
As cricket was a mature, highly organized sport in the 1600s in इंग्लैण्ड, the term 's origin could well precede this first recorded usage.
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in ' is first recorded in 1522, and could be related.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, also called ADA deficiency or ADA-SCID, is an autosomal recessive metabolic विकार that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than one in 100,000 सजीव births worldwide.
It accounts लिये परिचय 15 % of all cases of severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
It is very rare, you have a 3 % chance of getting this gene.
ADA कमियां may be present in infancy, childhood, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and severity is सम्बन्धित to कुछ 29 known genotypes associated with the disorder.
An example of शहरी poverty in this slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of एक जो lacks a certain amount of material possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the पिछडे of basic human needs, which commonly includes food, water, sanitation, clothing, shelter, health care and education.
Relative poverty is defined contextually as आर्थिक असमानता in the location or society in which people live.
For much of history, poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional modes of production were insufficient to give an entire population a आरामदायक मानक of जीना.
After the industrial revolution, mass production in factories made wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
Of more importance is the modernization of agriculture, ऐसे as fertilizers, in order to provide enough yield to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on सरकारी सेवाएं ऐसे as corruption, tax avoidance, debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more affordable typically include welfare, आर्थिक freedoms, and providing financial services.
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन such as the United Nations and the World Bank.
The World Bank estimated 1.29 billion लोगों यहूद जीना in absolute poverty in 2008.
Of these, about 400 million लोगों in निरपेक्ष poverty lived in India and 173 million people in China.
In यूएसए 1 in 5 children lives in poverty.
In terms of percentage of regional populations, sub-Saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute गरीबी in 2008.
Between 1990 and 2010, about 663 million people moved above the absolute गरीबी level.
Still, extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it is observed in all parts of the world, including the developed economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to harmful effects from ingestion of विषाक्त substances present in a mushroom.
These symptoms can vary from slight जठरांत्र तकलीफ to death.
The toxins present are secondary metabolites produced in विशिष्ट biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom poisoning is usually the result of ingestion of wild मशरूम बाद misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species.
The most common reason लिये इस misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप in terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species.
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon विरल अवसर poisoned by eating toxic species, despite being well aware of the risks, through carelessness.
to prevent मशरूम विषाक्तता, मशरूम gatherers need to be very familiar with the mushrooms they intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species.
In addition, edibility of mushrooms may depend on विधि of तैयारी for cooking.
collectors भी need to be well aware that edibility or toxicity of some species varies with geographic location.
Human height is the distance from the bottom of the feet to the top of the head in a इंसान देह, खड़ा erect.
When populations share genetic background and environmental कारकों, औसत ऊँचाई is अक्सर characteristic within the group.
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, जिससे हैं चिकित्सा conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may account for delayed growth and/or ( in कठोर मामले ) चिह्नित reductions in वयस्क stature भी without the presence of any of these medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans, Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, on the Moon on July 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the first to step onto the चंद्र surface 6 hours later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent about two and a half hours outside the spacecraft, Aldrin slightly less ; and together they एकत्रित of lunar material for return to Earth.
A third member of the mission, Michael Collins, piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until Armstrong and Aldrin returned to it just under a day later for the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in merritt द्वीप, Florida on July 16, Apollo 11 was the fifth manned mission of NASA 's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin लिये the तीन astronauts जिससे थी the तभी part which landed back on Earth ; a Service Module which supported the Command Module with propulsion, electrical power, oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon.
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage, the astronauts separated the spacecraft इससे it और travelled लिये तीन दिनों जबतक वे entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into the Lunar Module and landed in the समुद्र of Tranquility.
They ठहरे a कुल of परिचय 21 और a half hours on the lunar surface.
After lifting off in the upper part of the Lunar Module and rejoining Collins in the कमांड Module, they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the lunar surface and described the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man, एक दानव leap for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a नेशनल लक्ष्य प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress, `` before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are स्पेन, जो जीती the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A योग्यता phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ different national teams.
ब्राज़ील have जीती पाँच टाइम्स, और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a पद coined in 1944 by राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group.
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of life, calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
Skulls of victims of the rwandan नरसंहार
The preamble to the CPPCG not तभी राज्य कि `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों अंतर्गत international law, contrary to the spirit and aims of the United Nations and condemned by the civilized world '', but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
Determining what historical events constitute a genocide and which हैं merely दण्ड or अमानवीय behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
In nearly every case where accusations of genocide have circulated, partisans of various sides have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event, often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
An accusation of genocide is certainly not taken lightly and will almost always be विवादास्पद.
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides should be समझा in this context and can not be regarded as the final word on these subjects.
a समय बेल्ट is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a लचीली बेल्ट साथ teeth moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed belt used to drive the camshaft ( s ) within an आतंरिक दहन engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture, but is also influenced by Native American, अफ़्रीकी, एशियाई, Polynesian, and Latin American cultures.
American culture started इसके गठन over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the continental United States.
It has its own unique social and cultural विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its history.
Its chief early European influences came from English, स्कॉटिश, वेल्श and Irish settlers of colonial America during British rule.
अंग्रेजों संस्कृति, due to औपनिवेशिक ties with Britain that spread the English language, legal system and other cultural inheritances, had a formative influence.
Other important influences came from other parts of western Europe, विशेषकर जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, और Italy.
Original elements also play a strong role, such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an American and a reactionary piece to the prevailing European consensus that अमेरिका 's घरेलू originality was degenerate.
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely American sports, military tradition, and innovations in the arts and entertainment give a strong भाव of नेशनल अभिमान among the जनसांख्यिकी as a पूरे.
American culture includes both conservative and liberal elements, scientific and religious competitiveness, political structures, risk taking and free expression, भौतिकवादी और moral elements.
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g. individualism, egalitarianism, and faith in freedom and democracy ), American culture has a variety of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक स्केल और जनसांख्यिकी विविधता.
The लचीलापन of u.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic identity ; others see it as American exceptionalism.
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans, and other ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from Latin अमेरिका, और एशियाई American cultures.
Many American cultural तत्व, विशेषकर from popular culture, have spread across the globe through modern mass media.
The United States has often been thought of as a melting pot, but beginning in the late 1990s और जल्दी 2000s, it trends towards cultural diversity, pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of अमरीकी संस्कृति, वहीँ are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background, occupation and जातीय समूह सदस्यता.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands, comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa.
It is an official language—alongside English —in both jurisdictions.
Samoan, a Polynesian language, is the first language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000.
With many samoan people living in other countries, the total number of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological मतभेद between औपचारिक और informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory.
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is दिए और रक्त samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood.
The test is usually used to test for diabetes, insulin resistance, and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the test, an oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ), a standard dose of glucose is ingested by mouth and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for विभिन्न उद्देश्य, साथ अलग मानक doses of ग्लूकोज, अलग रूट of प्रशासन, different intervals and durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About me '' is a song written by Garry Frost and Frances Swan, first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top ; there, it was the second-highest selling single of 1982.
The success of the song led them to अमेरिका जहाँ it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it managed to make Billboards top 100 Pop singles of 1983, at # 88, a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position.
The song made an असामान्य वापसी in 1989, peaking at # 46.
On the left a chicken egg, the egg most commonly eaten by humans, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of अनेक अलग प्रजाति, including birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish, and have been eaten by mankind for thousands of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( egg white ), and vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained भीतर various thin membranes.
Popular चुनाव लिये अंडा खपत are chicken, duck, quail, roe, and caviar, but the egg most often consumed by humans is the chicken egg, by a wide margin.
अंडा yolks और पूरे eggs store significant amounts of protein and choline, and are widely used in cookery.
Due to their प्रोटीन सामग्री, the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) categorizes eggs as Meats within the Food Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional value of eggs, there are some potential health issues arising इससे अंडा विशेषता, भंडार, और व्यक्तिगत allergies.
Chickens and other egg-laying जीव हैं widely रखा throughout the world, and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 लाख मीट्रिक टन of अंडे were produced worldwide from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation, as well as current debates concerning methods of mass production, with the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens.
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer league representing the sport 's highest level in the संयुक्त राज्य and Canada.
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S. Soccer ), the लीग is composed of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently run from March to December, with each team playing 34 games in the regular season.
Ten टीमों compete in the postseason MLS Cup Playoffs culminating in the championship game, the MLS Cup.
Major League Soccer was founded in 1993 as part of the United States ' bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
the पहला season took place in 1996 beginning with ten teams.
Instead of ऑपरेटिंग as an संघ of independently स्वामित्व टीमों, mls is a सिंगल एंटिटी जहाँ प्रत्येक टोली is स्वामित्व और नियंत्रित by the लीग 's निवेशकों.
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the संसार 's few सॉकर लीग not using promotion and relegation.
The वैधता of cannabis varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि, जिससे governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries, सहित Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis और replaced उन्हें साथ a नियामक शासन, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, अलावा इससे the countries that offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in कुछ देशों than others in regard to the cultivation, use, possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, making it punishable by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a more restrictive direction as in कनाडा.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in अनेक देशों और have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, सरल कब्ज़ा can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) साथ each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows सार्थक गणितीय अभिव्यक्ति defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय performance reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection fraction is a गणितीय उत्पाद allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a mathematical term, Ejection Fraction is an extension of the कार्य of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of California, largely in the mojave मरुस्थल.
The southern portion of the highway is signed as the Antelope Valley Freeway.
the रूट connects Interstate 5, or Golden State Freeway, near Santa Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern.
Legislatively, the route extends south of I-5 to State रूट 1 in the प्रशांत palisades क्षेत्रफल of Los Angeles, however the portion south of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the समुदायों of Santa Clarita, Palmdale and Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
The northern portion, from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395, is legislatively named the Aerospace राजमार्ग, as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base, once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle.
This section is rural, following the line between the hot Mojave desert and the forming सिएरा नेवाडा पहाड़ दायरा.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad, used for the Antelope Valley Line of the metrolink commuter रेल प्रणाली as खूब as a कनेक्शन between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass.
linked साथ us 395, इस सड़क connects Los Angeles with such places as Mammoth Mountain, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964, when U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast रूट इससे long बीच to provincetown, मैसाचुसेट्स.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 इससे चांदी महारानी सड़क उत्तर of rosamond to mojave is known as Sierra Highway, as is the old routing between Interstate 5 and Silver Queen Road where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
Portions of रूट 14 remain signed with names associated with US 6, including Midland Trail, Theodore Roosevelt Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway.
This route is part of the California Freeway and एक्सप्रेसवे प्रणाली.
Blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors.
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of vision loss and define दृष्टिहीनता.
Total blindness is the complete lack of form and visual लाइट बोध and is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is frequently used to describe कठोर विज़ुअल impairment with vision.
Those described as having only light perception have no more sight than the ability to tell लाइट इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य दिशा of a light source.
To determine which people may need special सहायता क्युकी of उनके विज़ुअल disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have formulated more complex definitions referred to as legal blindness.
In North America and सबसे of यूरोपीय, विधिक दृष्टिहीनता is defined as visual acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible.
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand from an object to see it—with corrective lenses —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from.
In many areas, people with average acuity who nonetheless have a विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड of less than 20 degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind.
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally blind, by any measure, have no vision.
The rest have some vision, from light बोध alone to relatively good acuity.
Low vision is sometimes used to describe विज़ुअल acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or corresponding visual field loss to less than 20 degrees, in the बेहतर नजर साथ बेहतरीन संभावित सुधार.
दृष्टिहीनता is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or corresponding visual field loss to less than 10 degrees, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still register light non-visually for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट और हैं नहीं affected by optic nerve damage beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born December 18, 1970 ), better known by his stage names DMX and Dark Man X, is an अमरीकी rapper और actor.
In 1999, DMX released उसके best-selling एल्बम... And Then There Was X, which featured the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films such as Belly, Romeo जरूर die, निकास wounds, पालना 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
in 2006, he starred in the reality television series, which was primarily aired on the BET cable television network.
In 2003, DMX published a book of his memoirs हकदार, e.a.r.l. : the Autobiography of DMX.
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards his album Undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX has sold over 30 million records विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time.
Professional certification, trade certification, or professional designation, often called simply certification or योग्यता, is a नामांकन earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications कि उपयोग post-nominal अक्षर हैं an acknowledgement of educational achievement, or an agency appointed to safeguard the public interest.
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character, best remembered for his starring roles in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies श्रेणी of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by warner भाईs. during the Golden age of American animation.
His popularity during this era led to his becoming a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant, personality, a pronounced New York accent, his portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, doc ? ''
( प्रायः said while chewing a carrot ).
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon character and is the नवीं सबसे portrayed film personality in the world.
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only One धूसर हरे, बग थी born on July 27, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York in a warren under Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
In reality, he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery, who directed Bugs ' early definitive short A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट mckimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; एकवचन mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal origin, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
वे लकीर कैविटी that are exposed to the external environment and internal organs.
They are at several places contiguous with skin : at the nostrils, the lips of the mouth, the eyelids, the ears, the genital area, and the anus.
The sticky, thick fluid secreted by the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों और ग्रंथियों is termed mucus.
The term mucous membrane refers to where they are found in the body and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans penis ( head of the penis ), along with the inside of the foreskin and the clitoral हुड, हैं श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों.
The urethra is also a mucous membrane.
The secreted mucus traps the pathogens in the देह, preventing any further activities of diseases.
A master sergeant is the सैन्य रैंक for a senior non-commissioned officer in some armed forces.
Cake is a form of bread or bread-like food.
In its modern forms, it is typically a sweet baked मिठाई.
In its oldest forms, cakes were normally fried breads or cheesecakes, and normally had a disk shape.
Determining whether a given food should be classified as bread, cake, or pastry can be मुश्किल.
Modern cake, especially layer cakes, सामान्यतः contain a संयोजन of flour, sugar, eggs, and butter or oil, with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, dried or candied fruit, or extracts are often added, and numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients are possible.
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or मिठाई sauces ( like pastry cream ), iced with buttercream or other icings, and decorated with marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions, विशेषकर weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays.
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like, कुछ समृद्ध और elaborate, and many are centuries old.
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake.
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an American Christian singer, evangelist, entrepreneur, author, talk show host, and television personality.
She was married from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, and later convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
She co-hosted साथ him on The PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
She was a participant in the 2004 ऋतु of the reality show The Surreal Life.
Cambria is a village in Columbia काउंटी, विस्कॉन्सिन, United States.
The population was 767 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is part of the मैडिसन महानगर Statistical Area.
Public policy is the principled guide to action लिया by the प्रशासनिक कार्यपालिका branches of the state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs.
In general, the foundation is the pertinent national and substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation such as the us संघीय code.
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations और regulations जिससे हैं generally authorized by legislation.
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, regulatory measures, laws, and funding priorities concerning a given टॉपिक promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives. ''
Public policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, विधान acts, and judicial decisions. ''
In the United States, this concept refers not only to the परिणाम of नीतियों, लकिन अधिक broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions.
As an academic discipline, public नीति is पढ़ाई by professors and students at public policy schools of major universities throughout the country.
The U.S. professional association of पब्लिक नीति practitioners, शोधकर्ताओं, scholars, and students is the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical and chemical breakdown of food into smaller components that are अधिक easily absorbed into a blood stream, for instance.
पाचन is a form of catabolism : a breakdown of large food molecules to smaller ones.
When food enters the mouth, digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication, a form of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
Saliva, a liquid secreted by the salivary ग्रंथियों, contains salivary amylase, an एंजाइम which starts the digestion of starch in the food.
After undergoing mastication and starch digestion, the food will be in the रूप of a छोटी, round slurry mass called a bolus.
It will then travel down the esophagus and into the पेट by the action of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the पेट starts protein digestion.
Gastric juice mainly contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड और pepsin.
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus is secreted by the stomach, providing a slimy layer कि अधिनियमों as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals.
At the same time protein digestion is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall.
इस allows the mass of food to further mix with the digestive enzymes.
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans, 4–6 hours in dogs, somewhat shorter अवधि in हाउस बिल्लियों ), the resulting thick liquid is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes साथ digestive enzymes from the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully पचता, it is absorbed into the blood.
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the छोटी आंत.
Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the रक्त in the colon ( large intestine ) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some vitamins, such as biotin and vitamin K ( K2MK7 ) produced by जीवाणु in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon.
Waste material is eliminated इससे the मलाशय during defecation.
Henry viii ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, and later king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the नाममात्र claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the दूसरी monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is known for his role in the separation of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with रोम led to the विरह of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
Henry oversaw the विधिक संघ of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल, well-equipped army, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his part, प्रयुक्त the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये हेनरी, who invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित हेनरी only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries माना हेनरी in उसके prime to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he also सगाई himself as an author and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the दो बाते लिये जिससे हेनरी is सबसे remembered : उसके छह विवाह और the English Reformation.
Henry became morbidly obese and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in his बाद life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an afro-cuban percussion instrument.
The drums are of different size : the larger drum is called in Spanish the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ).
They हैं membranophones, or instruments that create sound by a vibration of a stretched membrane.
Different religious groups include different books in उनके biblical canons, in varying orders, and sometimes divide or combine books, or incorporate additional material into canonical books.
ईसाई bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four books divided into three parts ; the five books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ), and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old Testament, which contains, at minimum, the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine किताबे और ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible.
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches also hold certain deuterocanonical books और passages to be भाग of the Old Testament canon.
The second part is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven किताबे ; the चार Canonical gospels, Acts of the Apostles, twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation.
The Eastern परंपरागत, प्राच्य Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in their lists of accepted books.
The list given here for these चर्च is the most inclusive : if at least one Eastern church accepts the book it is included here.
The national flag of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, प्रायः बस referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज, consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका और the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the ध्वज शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '', `` Old Glory ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford,, also known as the Dred Scott Decision, was a लैंडमार्क निर्णय by the U.S. Supreme Court.
It made two main rulings.
The first ruling was that African-Americans यहूद not citizens, and therefore had no standing to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power to विनियमित गुलामी in any territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States.
Given the first ruling, most scholars and many contemporary political figures ( including the leadership of the then-new Republican Party ) considered that the second ruling was not binding precedent, but mere dictum.
The rationale of the परम् Court regarding the jurisdictional ruling implied that people of African descent ( both slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the u.S. संविधान, both rulings are superseded and no longer valid precedent.
nonetheless, the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever made by the Supreme Court.
The opinion of the court, written by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney, stirred debate.
The decision थी 7–2, और प्रत्येक इंसाफ besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or dissent.
For the first time since Marbury v. Madison, the Court held an Act of कॉंग्रेस to be unconstitutional.
Dred Scott, an African-American slave, had asked a United States Circuit अदालत to पुरस्कार उसे उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी he and his master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, writing for the court, held that Scott, as a person of African ancestry, थी नहीं a नागरिक of the संयुक्त States and therefore had no right to sue in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time, particularly Free states, where free blacks did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens, such as the right to vote and hold public office.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court went on to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit slavery in federal territories because slaves are personal property and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects property स्वामी विरूद्ध पिछडे of उनके प्रॉपर्टी बगैर due प्रक्रम of विधि.
In reaching this decision, Taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United States, लकिन it था the विपरीत प्रभाव.
The decision was fiercely debated across the country, as perhaps best exemplified by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever Republican nominee for President, was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank.
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession और the सिविल युद्ध, हालांकि it is चरम to कह the decision `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is credited with launching Abraham Lincoln’s national political career and ultimately allowing for उसके election.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the Fourteenth amendment in 1868, जिससे begins by stating, `` All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To which the अदालत नोटd:
The first observation we have to make on इस clause is, कि it puts at rest both the questions which we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion.
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without regard to their citizenship of a particular State, and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by बनाना सब व्यक्तियों born भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और विषय to इसके क्षेत्राधिकार citizens of the United States.
There are दर्जनों of पड़ोस in Columbus, Ohio.
Some are hard to define, as they encompass large क्षेत्रों विकसित at अलग times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them.
Borders can also बदलें आधारित on लोकप्रिय understanding of the area, as well as the whims of the residents.
This article uses data from the datasourcecolumbus वेब साईट, Spotcrime.com, HelloColumbus.com, as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
excerpts और किनारा information are drawn directly from the main articles.
A biologist is a वैज्ञानिक who studies living organisms and their relationship to their environment.
biologists शामिल in basic research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work.
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve medical, औद्योगिक or agricultural processes.
Martinus Willem beijerinck, a botanist and microbiologist
Base कूद इससे a cliff in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. jumping, is an activity where participants jump इससे फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ and use a parachute to break their fall.
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four categories of fixed objects from जिससे एक can जम्प : buildings, antennas, spans ( bridges ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The British Shorthair is a domesticated cat जिनकी सुविधाएँ make it a popular breed in cat shows.
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001, when it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior नेशनल टोली, commonly known as the United States men 's national basketball team, represents the United States of America in international men 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful team in international प्रतियोगिता, जीतना medals in सब seventeen Olympic tournaments it has entered, coming away with fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team, which featured six Hall of Famers ( 4 players, 2 कोच ), और the 1992 `` Dream Team '', featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players, 3 coaches ).
The United States is currently ranked first in the FIBA संसार rankings.
traditionally composed of amateur players, a 1989 rule change by FIBA allowed USA Basketball to field teams with professional players.
The first such team, known as the `` Dream Team '', won the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, स्पेन, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the introduction of professionals, the team was able to spark a दूसरी चलाएं of दबदबा बाद capturing only a bronze medal in 1988.
A team of professional players competed at the 1994 FIBA World चैंपियनशिप, finishing first.
in 1996, 2000, 2008, and 2012 the USA again captured gold medals.
Facing increased competition, the USA failed to win a medal at the 2002 FIBA World चैंपियनशिप, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three खेल on इसके रास्ता to a कांस्य पदक, a रिकार्ड कि represented more losses in a single year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined.
संकल्पित to put an end to these failures, USA Basketball initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan before losing against Greece in the semi-finals, समाप्ति the competition with the bronze medal.
The USA won gold two years later, though, at the 2008 Summer Olympics साथ a dominant performance.
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World चैंपियनशिप, जहाँ despite क्षेत्ररक्षण a रोस्टर featuring no players from the 2008 Olympic team, the USA did not lose a single game en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing gold once more at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
The Steelers Super कटोरी XL ring
Joe Theismann 's Super Bowl रिंग ( सही )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the National Football League दिए to the winners of the league 's annual World Championship game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one विंस लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
Image प्रर्दशित the छह most common speleothems with labels.
to view लेबल्स.
The Witch 's Finger in the carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` dropping, trickling '' ) is a type of speleothem that rises from the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate.
This stalagmite formation occurs only under certain pH शर्तें within the underground cavern.
The corresponding formation on the ceiling of a गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalactite.
If these formations grow together, the परिणाम is ज्ञात as a column.
The Hall of Giants in the carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched, since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the water solution onto the old surface ; skin oils can alter the surface where the mineral water will चिपकी, यूँ affecting the विकास of the formation.
Oils and dirt from human contact can also stain the formation and change its color permanently.
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes, associated with कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles, although the mechanism of formation is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings और floors, हालांकि they form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is located in the cave of Cueva मार्टिन infierno, क्यूबा.
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran, approximately from the ancient city of Bishapur, in the Shapur cave on the fourth of five terraces stands the 3rd century CE statue of shapur i, दूसरी शासक of the सासानी Empire.
The statue, carved इससे one stalagmite, is nearly high.
How I Met Your Mother is an American sitcom कि premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
The show was created by क्रेग थामस and Carter Bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter ( Lyndsy Fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie ) to बताना उन्हें the स्टोरी of कैसा he met their mother.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted mosby ( जोश radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from Wesleyan University, Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ), a law student, and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ), a kindergarten teacher, who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their सगाई कल्याणकारी टेड to सोचो परिचय ढूंढना his own soul mate, much to the disgust of his friend Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
And thus, Ted begins his search for his perfect mate, and meets Robin Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ), whom he भी befriends.
The 100th एपीसोड of कैसा I Met Your Mother aired on January 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the series थी नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं season.
On January 30, 2013, it was announced कि ऋतु 9 will be its final season.
Gringo (,, ) is a कठबोली स्पेनी and Portuguese word used in Ibero-America, to denote foreigners, often from the United States.
The term can be applied to someone who is दरअसल a foreigner, or it can denote a दमदार association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture.
In Spanish it does not have a negative connotation.
Roger Axtell, a travel etiquette expert, notes that `` [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
It is slang but is derogatory only in its use and कॉन्टेक्स्ट. ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote foreign, non-native speakers of Spanish.
The great white shark, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the great white, white pointer, white shark, or white death, is a प्रजाति of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans.
The great white shark is mainly known for its size, with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length, and in weight.
इस शार्क पहुँच इसके परिपक्वता around 15 सालो of आयु और can have a जीवन स्पैन of over 30 सालो.
The great white shark is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish, and is one of the प्राथमिक परभक्षी of marine mammals.
It is also known to prey upon a variety of अन्य समुद्री पशु, including fish and seabirds.
It is the only known surviving प्रजाति of its genus Carcharodon, and is ranked first in having the most attacks on humans.
The IUCN list the ग्रेट white shark as a vulnerable species, while it is included in Appendix II of CITES.
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर film by Steven Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
In reality, humans are not the पसन्दीदा शिकार of the great white shark.
The संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां हैं the military forces of the United States of America.
They consist of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and coast गार्ड.
The U.S. has a strong tradition of civilian कंट्रोल of the military.
The President is the सैन्य 's overall सिर, और helps रूप सैन्य policy with the U.S. Department of Defense ( DoD ), a federal executive department, acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out.
The dod is headed by the Secretary of Defense, who is a civilian and Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of command, just below the President, and serves as the principal assistant to the President in all DoD-related matters.
To coordinate सैन्य कार्रवाई साथ diplomacy, the President has an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of Staff, which includes the सिर of each of the Defense Department 's service branches as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the Chairman of the संयुक्त chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The Commandant of the coast गार्ड is not a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions, under the Unified Combatant कमांड, अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard.
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of Homeland Security and receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the Department of the Navy by the President or Congress during a time of war.
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the नेशनल oceanic और वायुमंडलीय प्रशासन commissioned Corps.
इससे the समय of इसके inception, the सैन्य played a decisive role in the history of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a result of victory in the First Barbary War और the दूसरी barbary युद्ध.
Even so, the Founders यहूद संदिग्ध of a स्थाई सैन्य force and not until the outbreak of World War II did a large standing army become officially established.
The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset, created the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act merged previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment ( renamed the विभाग of रक्षा in 1949 ), headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council.
The U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in terms of number of personnel.
It draws its manpower from a large pool of paid volunteers ; although conscription has been used in the पास्ट in विभिन्न times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972.
As of 2013, the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its सैन्य शक्तियां, और appropriates लगभग $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations.
Put together, the u.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the world 's military expenditures.
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced और शक्तिशाली उपकरण, साथ साथ फैली placement of forces around the world, giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or विचार, regardless of the medium used.
in अभ्यास, the सही to स्वतंत्रता of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as साथ मानहानि, बदनामी, obscenity, राजद्रोह ( सहित, लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय द्वेष ), कापीराइट उल्लंघन, रहस्योद्घाटन of सूचना कि is वर्गीकृत or वरना.
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of इंसान अधिकारों and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include स्वतंत्रता to तलाश, प्राप्त और impart सूचना और विचार of सब kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in छपाई, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is मिला to कारण धार्मिक ठोकर, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त logo.
the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त is an American comedy television series created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady.
Like the name of the series itself, with the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode titles of The Big Bang Theory always start with `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 एपीसोड have aired.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त रै been renewed for a seventh season.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced, ; October 14, 1890 – March 28, 1969 ) was the 34th President of the संयुक्त States from 1953 until 1961.
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during World War II and served as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility for planning and supervising the invasion of North Africa in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the first supreme commander of NATO.
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family in Kansas by parents with a robust work ethic and religious background.
As one of six sons, he was conditioned by a competitive atmosphere which instilled self-reliance.
He attended and graduated from West Point and later शादीशुदा और था दो sons.
After World War II, Eisenhower served as Army Chief of Staff under President Harry S. Truman, then assumed the post of President at कोलंबिया University.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a रिपब्लिकन to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism, Korea and corruption ''.
He won by a भूस्खलन, defeating Democrat Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition.
In the first year of his presidency, आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the नेता of इरान in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China.
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons जबकि reducing the funding for conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino theory in his description of the threat presented by the spread of साम्यवादी.
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution, which enabled him to prevent Chinese communist aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan.
When the Soviets launched sputnik in 1957, he था to खेल catch-up in the space race.
Eisenhower forced इसराईल, the UK, and France to end their invasion of Egypt during the Suez Crisis of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western government from falling to a nasser -inspired क्रान्ति.
Near the end of his term, his efforts to set up a summit meeting with the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the U-2 incident.
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed जोसेफ मैकार्थी और contributed to the end of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege.
He वरना बाएँ सबसे राजनैतिक activity to his Vice President, Richard Nixon.
He was a moderate conservative who continued New Deal agencies and expanded Social Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among many invaluable outputs ; the National aeronautics और स्पेस प्रशासन ( नासा ), driving peaceful discovery in space ; the establishment of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act.
In social policy, he sent federal troops to Little Rock, Arkansas, for the first time since Reconstruction to enforce संघीय अदालत आदेश to desegregate public schools.
He also signed सिविल अधिकारों legislation in 1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years and made five नियुक्ति to the परम् अदालत.
He was the first term-limited president in accordance साथ the 22nd Amendment.
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones लिये the सबसे भाग and saw considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59.
आइज़नहावर is often ranked highly among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air traffic control कॉल चिह्न of a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States.
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed, built, and used लिये the purpose of transporting the president.
The Presidential aircraft is a prominent प्रतीक of the American presidency and its power.
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943, when officials of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज एयर शक्तियां – the पूर्ववर्ती to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President.
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured for use as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण ; however, it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record.
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this aircraft, dubbed the Sacred Cow, transported President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945, and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 incident during जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर entered the same airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign.
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet, including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s, respectively ; since 1990, the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
The Air Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25 वायुयान साथ three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017.
A wedding anniversary is the anniversary of the तिथि a wedding took place.
Traditional names exist for most of them : for instance, 50 years of marriage is called a `` golden wedding वर्षगांठ '' or बस a `` सुनहरी anniversary ''.
A स्कैनर साथ Duplexing Automatic Document Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax machines, photocopiers and scanners, an automatic document feeder or ADF is a feature which takes several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the user to scan, और thereby copy, print, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page.
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a दस्तावेज़ feeder.
The vast majority of fax machines have an ADF, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, some fax machine owners use the fax machine as a scanner, faxing multi-page documents to themselves.
Document feeders are described by speed, in pages per minute or ppm, and capacity, usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) स्कैनिंग : a reversing automatic document feeder or RADF scans one side of a page, then flips it and scans the other side.
A duplexing automatic document फीडर or dadf scans both sides in one pass.
The लाभ of the dadf is faster speed for two-sided originals.
RADFs and DADFs are rated in बिंब प्रति मिनट ( IPM ), the number of sides they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational और शैक्षणिक complex located in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
The complex is registered as a Dallas Landmark, National Historic Landmark and is home to nine museums, six performance facilities, a lagoon, and the largest Ferris wheel in North America.
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed for the Texas Centennial Exposition in 1936 which drew over six million visitors.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still survive and it is recognized as a significant उदाहरण of Art Deco architecture.
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place in America by the अमरीकी नियोजन Association.
The अमरीकी नियोजन संघ ( APA ) “is an independent, not-for-profit educational organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary अक्षर, विशेषता, और planning.”
होने designated as a Great Place in America, Fair Park was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011.
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California, the tenth-largest in the u.S., और the काउंटी सीट of सांता क्लारा काउंटी जिससे is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay.
San जोस is the largest नगर भीतर सिलिकॉन घाटी, which is a major component of the greater San Francisco Bay Area, a region of 8.4 million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest city in Northern कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
San Jose was founded on November 29, 1777, as El Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe, the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California, which बाद became Alta California.
The city served as a farming community to support Spanish military installations at सैन फ्रांसिस्को and Monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, San Jose served as its first capital.
After more than 150 years as a small farming city, San Jose and the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) संलग्न क्षेत्रफल of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
San Jose experienced increased demand लिये आवास इससे सैनिको and veterans returning from World War II.
San Jose then continued its aggressive expansion during the 1950s और 1960s by annexing more land area.
The rapid growth of the high-technology और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स उद्योग further accelerated the transition from an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San Jose 's location within the booming local technology industry earned the city its nickname, पूंजी of Silicon Valley.
San Jose now maintains global city औकात और is the largest city in the San Francisco Bay Area in terms of population, land area, and industrial development.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of April 2013, the estimated population of San Jose थी 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa Clara Valley, experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, साथ characteristics of intense urbanization similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California.
The city has taken definite steps to avoid बनने `` L.A. North ''.
However, the sprawl in सैन जोस is बदतर than in Los Angeles by measures such as population density and public transit safety, investment, and ridership.
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the यूरोपीय महाद्वीप चूंकि it थी पहला populated in prehistoric times to present, with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to Prehistoric यूरोपीय आए दौरान the paleolithic era.
The arrival of agriculture around 7000 BC ushered in the पाषाणकालीन age.
Neolithic यूरोपीय lasted for 4000 years, overlapping with metal-using cultures that gradually spread throughout the continent.
Technological advances during the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the Middle East, spreading gradually to the northwest.
Some of the best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय यहूद मिनोआई और माइसीनियाई, which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as classical antiquity began with the rise of the city-states of प्राचीन यूनानियों.
Greek influence reached its zenith under the expansive empire of सिकंदर the ग्रेट, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western Europe were dominated by the La Tène culture, a precursor to the Celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally संस्थापित in 753 bc, would grow to become the Roman Republic in 509 BC and would succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization.
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire.
The empire was बाद विभाजित by the emperor Diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
During the later years of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated attacks led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476, a date which traditionally marks the समाप्त of the शास्त्रीय काल और the प्रारंभ of the Middle Ages.
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern Roman Empire survived, though modern historians refer to इस राज्य as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
In Western Europe, germanic peoples स्थानांतरित into स्थितियाँ of शक्ति in the remnants of the पूर्व पश्चिमी Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own.
Of all of the Germanic peoples, the Franks would rise to a position of Hegemony over western Europe, the Frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of France, while East Francia would evolve into the पावन रोमन साम्राज्य, a precursor to modern Germany.
The British Isles were the site of अनेक large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन, और जब the romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों isles during the 400s, waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927.
During इस काल, the Kingdom of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) were organized as well.
The Viking Age, a period of migrations of scandinavian peoples, dominated the period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of Cnut the Great, a Danish leader who would become king of इंग्लैण्ड, Denmark, and Norway.
The Normans, a Viking लोगों जो settled in उत्तरी फ़्रांस और संस्थापित the duchy of Normandy, would have a significant impact on many parts of Europe, from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily.
Another Scandinavian people, the Rus ' people, would go on to found Kievan Rus ', an early state which थी a precursor for the modern country of Russia.
As the Viking Age drew to a close, the period known as the Crusades, a series of religiously-motivated सैन्य रिझाने originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule, began.
Several Crusader states were founded in the eastern भूमध्यसागरीय.
ये यहूद सब short-lived.
The crusaders would have a profound impact on many parts of Europe.
Their Sack of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire.
Extinct श्वान breeds is a compilation of dog breeds that have become extinct.
Wii Speak is a microphone accessory लिये Nintendo 's Wii video game console.
Connected to the console via USB, the device can be placed near the video display, allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire room.
The device features an LED to indicate when the microphone is active.
Wii Speak was घोषित at Nintendo 's 2008 E3 media briefing.
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing : City Folk on November 16, 2008, in North America, and was released on December 5, 2008, in Europe.
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's GamePad controller.
निसान बुद्धिमान Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and authorization प्रणाली जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ as an विकल्प or standard in several cars.
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by mercedes-benz under the name `` Keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
univisión ( ) is a spanish-language television network in the United States.
The network is primarily dedicated for Latin American families जो reside in the United States.
It रै the largest दर्शक of Spanish-language television viewers in the world according to Nielsen ratings.
Randy Falco, ( CEO as of June 29, 2011 ) COO, has been in charge of the company since the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010.
in हाल सालो the संजाल रै पहुँचे पैरिटी साथ the u.S. 's पाँच प्रमुख english-language टेलीविज़न संजाल, और is प्रायः a दमदार पांचवां, outranking the cw, साथ कुछ fourth-place साप्ताहिक placings, और as of 2012, भी पहला प्लेस rankings लिये व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम over सब पाँच अंग्रेज़ी संजाल due to the संजाल 's सतत अनुसूची of नई telenovelas सब 52 सप्ताह of the साल.
Univisión is headquartered in New York, and has its major studios, production facilities, and operations in Doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another television studio was announced, Univision studios, to be built in Doral.
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country, with local stations in over 50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national cable network feed distributed in बाज़ार बगैर either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station.
Most of these stations air पूरा लोकल न्यूज और other local programming in addition to network shows, and in major markets such as Los Angeles, New York, and Miami the local newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated station ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ), TPG Capital, L.P., Providence Equity Partners, Madison Dearborn Partners, and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 अरब in acquired कर्ज़.
The buyout left the company with a debt level of twelve times its सालाना नकदी प्रवाह, जिससे थी twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years.
Artist 's धारणा of a protoplanetary disk
The formation and of the Solar System is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a giant molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk out of which the planets, moons, asteroids, और अन्य small Solar System bodies formed.
This widely accepted model, known as the nebular hypothesis, was first developed in the 18th century by emanuel swedenborg, immanuel kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent development has interwoven a variety of वैज्ञानिक disciplines सहित astronomy, physics, geology, and planetary science.
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s, the model has been both challenged and refined to account for new observations.
the सौर प्रणाली रै विकसित considerably चूंकि इसके आरंभिक गठन.
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their parent planets, while other moons are thought to have formed independently और बाद महरूम captured by उनके ग्रह.
Still अन्य, as the Earth 's Moon, may be the result of giant collisions.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day and have been central to the एवोल्यूशन of the सौर प्रणाली.
The positions of the planets often shifted, और planets have switched places.
This planetary migration is now thought to have been responsible for much of the Solar प्रणाली 's जल्दी एवोल्यूशन.
In roughly 5 billion years, the Sun will cool and expand outward many times its current diameter ( becoming a red giant ), before casting off its outer layers as a planetary नीहारिका और leaving पीछे a तारकीय remnant known as a white dwarf.
In the far distant future, the gravity of passing stars will धीरे reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets.
Some planets will be destroyed, others ejected into interstellar स्पेस.
ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title :, later as, and ) is a novel written by Franz Kafka in 1914 और 1915 लकिन नहीं published until 1925.
One of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, अभिगम्य authority, with the nature of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's other novels, The Trial was never completed, although it does include a chapter which brings the story to an end.
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the अनोखा, ऐसे as असमानताओं in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
बाद काफ्का 's मौत in 1924 his friend and literary executor Max Brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede.
The original पाण्डुलिपि is held at the Museum of Modern Literature, Marbach am Neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the किताब थी सूचीबद्ध in le mondes 100 Books of the Century and as No. 2 of the Best German Novels of the Twentieth Century.
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born कूच 11, 1968 ) is an American singer-songwriter and actress.
She launched her career in 1994 with the सोंग, `` रहो ( i छूटी तुम ) ``, which was included in the film Reality Bites.
She was the first artist to have a क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the United States while not signed to a recording contract.
Her पाँच स्टुडियो cds शामिल उसके प्रमुख लेबल डेब्यू, the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up, the Grammy-nominated, gold-selling Firecracker.
लोएब रै भी worked in film, television, voice-over work and children’s recordings.
Loeb has appeared in two television series, dweezil & लिसा, a weekly culinary adventure for the Food Network and Number 1 Single, a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her quest for love, success, career, and family.
Her children 's music includes the albums Catch the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's Silly Sing-Along : The निराशाजनक पैनकेक और अन्य zany Songs was published in 2011.
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear Collection, जिससे is आधारित on her own designs.
The Coat of arms of the राज्य of New Jersey includes:
A shield with three plows emblazoned, representative of New Jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing knight 's helmet.
A horse 's सिर as the crest of the helmet.
The female figures स्वतंत्रता और Ceres, representative of the state 's motto ( see next item ).
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a `` liberty cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the राज्य motto of नई जर्सी, `` स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि '', and the year of statehood, 1776.
It was originally designed by पियरे Eugene du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New Jersey and the Great Seal of the State of New Jersey.
The Coat of बाहें contains a horse 's head.
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a shield referring to the State 's कृषि परंपरा, giving it the उपनाम `` Garden State ''.
The दो Goddesses represent the State motto, `` Liberty and Prosperity ''.
Liberty is on the left.
She is holding a स्टाफ साथ a स्वतंत्रता cap on it, and the word liberty underneath her.
The goddess on the सही is Ceres, goddess of agriculture.
वो is पकड़कर a cornucopia साथ समृद्धि लिखा नीचे उसके.
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General सभा लिये कूच 11, 1896, the तिथि in जिससे the सभा officially स्वीकृत the flag as the state emblem, the buff color is due indirectly to George Washington, who had ordered on October 2, 1779, that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue, with buff facings.
buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his own uniform and those of other Continental generals and their aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background color of the regiments ' state flag.
The seal is described in नई Jersey statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the Beatles, लिखा by पॉल McCartney and John Lennon.
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` single साथ `` दिन tripper ``, the पहला समय दोनो पहलू of a single were so designated in an initial release.
दोनो गीतों were recorded during the Rubber Soul sessions.
The song is an example of Lennon–McCartney collaboration at a depth that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963.
This song, `` A Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, You 're a समृद्ध man `` और `` I 've Got a Feeling ``, are among the notable exceptions.
As a medical diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 सालो or younger, हालांकि specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least five years older than the prepubescent child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The पद रै a range of definitions, as found in psychiatry, psychology, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour '' in जिससे वहीँ is a यौन वरीयता for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी have तीव्र और तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards और कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty.
In popular उपयोग, pedophilia अर्थात् कोई यौन ब्याज in children or the act of child sexual abuse, often termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical शब्दकोष राज्य, `` pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the sexual interest in and यौन सम्पर्क साथ pubescent or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly exhibit the disorder, some offenders do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and ये मानकों pertain to prepubescents.
Additionally, not all pedophiles दरअसल commit such abuse.
Pedophilia was first formally recognized and named in the late 19th century.
A significant amount of research in the area रै लिया प्लेस since the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, there are also women who exhibit the disorder, and researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the सच्चा क्रमांक of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia has been developed, but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a व्यक्ति committing child sexual abuse.
In the United States, following कान्सास v. hendricks, sex अपराधियों जो are diagnosed with certain mental disorders, particularly pedophilia, can be subject to indefinite civil commitment, under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the exact causes of pedophilia have not महरूम conclusively स्थापित.
Research suggests कि pedophilia may be correlated साथ several different neurological abnormalities, and often co-exists with other personality disorders and psychological pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement, a variety of typologies have महरूम सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
Julio César Chávez ( born Julio César Chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer.
Chávez is considered by many people for their sport statistics the greatest fighter ever to come out of मैक्सिको.
He is a six-time world champion in three weight divisions, and for several years he was considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, WBC Lightweight in 1988, wbc Light Welterweight in 1989, IBF Light Welterweight in 1990, and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994.
He holds records लिये सबसे कामयाब लगातार defenses of संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ), most title fights ( 37 ), most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez also has the longest undefeated streak in boxing history, 13 years.
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie Randall and had an 87 fight win streak until his `` draw '' with whitaker.
Julio César chávez was known for his outstanding punching power, devastating body attack, remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking of his opponents.
He ranks # 24 on ESPN 's 50 महानतम मुक्केबाज of All Time.
On December 7, 2010, he was inducted in the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011.
He is the father of prospect Omar Chávez and former WBC middleweight चैंपियन Julio César Chávez, Jr.
`` Selektion `` on the Judenrampe, auschwitz, May/June 1944.
To be sent to the सही meant slave labor ; to the left, the gas chamber.
This image shows the arrival of Hungarian Jews इससे Carpatho-Ruthenia, many of them from the Berehov ghetto.
The फ़ोटोग्राफ़र was Ernst Hofmann or Bernhard Walter of the SS. Image courtesy of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew :, HaShoah, `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish :, Churben or Hurban, from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ), was the mass murder or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War II, a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany, led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe before the holocaust, लगभग two-thirds were killed.
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust, as were approximately two million Jewish women and three million Jewish men.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were used to concentrate, hold, and kill Jews and other victims.
Some विद्वानों argue कि the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition, and some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi mass murders, including those of Soviet prisoners of war, Polish and Soviet civilians, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet संघ indicates कुछ टेन to ग्यारह million civilians and prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution and genocide were carried out in stages.
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society, most prominently the Nuremberg Laws, were enacted in Germany सालो पहले the outbreak of World War II.
Concentration शिविरों यहूद स्थापित in जिससे inmates were subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern Europe, specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings.
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by freight train to extermination camps where, if they survived the journey, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that led to the genocides, turning the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ), with the mission of `` engaging युवावस्था to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development. ''
the name represents four personal development areas of focus for the organization : head, heart, hands, and health.
The organization रै over 6.5 million members in the United States, from ages five to twenty-one, in approximately 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, responsibility and life कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential learning programs and a positive youth development approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history, 4-H today focuses on नागरिकता, स्वस्थ जीना, विज्ञान, अभियान्त्रिकी, and technology programs.
Today, 4-H and related programs exist in over eighty countries around the world ; the organization and प्रशासन varies from country to country.
Each of these programs operates independently, but cooperatively through international exchanges, global education programs, and communications.
The 4-H motto is `` To make the best better '', while its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` सीख to do by doing '' ).
The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of श्वेत और रेड और a blue square the same height as the white band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center.
it थी अपनाया on 18 अक्तूबर 1817.
The Chilean flag is also known in Spanish as La Estrella solitaria ( the लोन स्टार ).
The star represents a guide to progress और सम्मान ; ब्लू symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean, white is for the snow-covered Andes, and red stands for the blood spilled to achieve independence.
According to the epic poem La Araucana, the colors were derived from those इससे the ध्वज flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War.
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción.
Generation Y, also known as the Millennial Generation, is the demographic cohort following Generation X.
There are no precise dates लिये when Generation Y starts and ends.
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s, or इससे the early 1980s to the early 2000s.
The Torches of Nero, by henryk siemiradzki.
According to Tacitus, Nero targeted Christians as those responsible for the आग.
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an urban fire कि occurred beginning 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the Commonwealth of Virginia, is a U.S. state located in the दक्षिण अटलांटिक प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the eight U.S. presidents born there.
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by the Blue Ridge Mountains and the chesapeake खाड़ी, जिससे provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the राष्ट्रमंडल is Richmond ; and Virginia Beach is the most populous city.
Fairfax County is the most populous political subdivision.
The wealthiest is loudoun County.
The Commonwealth 's जनसांख्यिकी is over eight million.
The area 's history begins with several स्वदेशी groups, including the Powhatan.
In 1607 the London Company established the Colony of वर्जिनिया as the पहला permanent New World English colony.
Slave labor and the land acquired from displaced Native American tribes each played a significant role in the उपनिवेश 's जल्दी राजनीती और plantation economy.
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the confederacy in the American Civil War, during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction, both major national parties are competitive in आधुनिक Virginia.
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest legislature in the Western Hemisphere.
The state government has been repeatedly ranked most प्रभावी by the Pew Center on the States.
It is unique in how it treats cities and counties equally, manages लोकल सड़कें, और prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia, including the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in Hampton Roads, the site of the region 's main seaport.
Virginia 's public schools and many colleges and universities have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a परिणाम, कंप्यूटर चिप्स have become the state 's leading export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker, codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing तन्त्र by microsoft.
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to create and edit videos as well as to publish them on SkyDrive, Facebook, YouTube, and Flickr.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by Tupac Shakur, and tenth track from उसके debut album, 2Pacalypse Now.
The song, which features R & B singer Dave Hollister, is about a twelve year-old girl named ब्रेंडा जो जीवनदान in a ghetto, रै a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The song explores the issue of टीन गर्भावस्था और इसके effect on the young mothers and their families.
Like many of Shakur 's songs, `` Brenda 's Got a baby '' draws इससे the दुर्दशा of the impoverished.
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general, Shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby 's father, the government, and society in general.
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and, because she किया not want her parents to know about the baby, threw it in a trash can.
The official logo of Pokémon for its international रिलीज ; `` पोकीमॉन '' is छोटी for the original Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a मीडिया franchise published and owned by Japanese video game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by Game Freak, Pokémon has since become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind only निन्टेंडो 's own Mario franchise.
Pokémon properties have since been merchandised into anime, manga, व्यापार ताश, खिलौने, किताबे, and other media.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, and, cumulative sales of the video games ( सहित घर कंसोल संस्करण, such as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies.
In November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन, announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement.
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company अंतरराष्ट्रीय ), a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co., now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia.
The name Pokémon is the romanized संकुचन of the Japanese brand.
The term Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the रिलीज of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y, 6 new Pokémon have been featured in promotions for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and बहुवचन, as is प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत प्रजाति name ; it is grammatically correct to say `` one Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the first edition of the प्रकाशन दादा by ट्रिस्टन Tzara ; Zurich, 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an art movement of the European avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many claim Dada began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was the साल पहले in 1915.
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art Knowledge, Dada थी born आउट of negative reaction to the horrors of World War I.
This अंतरराष्ट्रीय movement was begun by a group of artist and poets associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada rejected reason and लॉजिक, prizing nonsense, irrationality and intuition.
The origin of the name Dada is unclear ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain कि it originates इससे the रोमानियाई कलाकारों ट्रिस्टन tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent use of the words da, da, meaning yes, yes in the Romanian language.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a meeting of the group when a paper knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada ', a फ्रेंच word for 'hobbyhorse '.
The movement primarily involved visual arts, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, art theory, theatre, and graphic design, और concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In addition to being anti-war, Dada was also anti- बुर्जुआ और था political affinities with the radical left.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, and publication of art/literary journals ; passionate coverage of art, politics, and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, Hans Arp, Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Höch, Johannes Baader, Tristan Tzara, Francis Picabia, Richard Huelsenbeck, Georg Grosz, John Heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice Wood, Kurt Schwitters, and hans Richter, among others.
the गति बहकावे बाद शैलियाँ जैसे the avant-garde और शहर म्यूज़िक आंदोलनों, और समूह सहित surrealism, देवानंद réalisme, पॉप आर्ट और fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry, a starting point for performance art, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on pop art, a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism.
First trophic level.
The plants in this image, and the algae and phytoplankton in the lake, are primary producers.
They take nutrients from the soil or the water, and manufacture उनके अपना food by photosynthesis, using energy from the sun.
The trophic स्तर of an organism is the position it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic derives from the Greek τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that eat another organism and are, in फेरे, खाया themselves.
The number of steps an organism is from the start of the chain is a measure of इसके trophic स्तर.
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, predators at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The path along the chain can form either a one-way flow, or a food `` web. ''
Ecological communities with higher biodiversity form more जटिल trophic paths.
Four of the most important domesticated रेशा शलभ.
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
From Meyers Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy क्रिकेट.
Silk is a natural protein fibre, some forms of जिससे can be woven into textiles.
The protein fibre of silk is composed मुख्यतः of fibroin और उत्पादित by certain insect larvae to form cocoons.
The best-known type of silk is obtained इससे the cocoons of the लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering रूप of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre, which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different angles, thus producing different colors.
Silks are produced by several other insects, but generally only the silk of moth caterpillars has been used for textile निर्माण.
There has been कुछ research into other silks, which differ at the molecular level.
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis, but some adult insects such as webspinners produce silk, and some insects such as raspy झींगुर उपज silk throughout their lives.
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, and ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, भृंग, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
Other प्रकार of सन्धिपाद उपज रेशा, most notably various arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ).
Late Show with David Letterman is an American late-night talk show hosted by David लेटरमैन on सीबीएस.
The show debuted on August 30, 1993, and is produced by Letterman 's उत्पादन company, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
The show 's music director and band-leader of the हाउस band, the CBS Orchestra, is Paul Shaffer.
The head writer is Matt Roberts और the उद्घोषक is Alan Kalter.
Of the major U.S. late-night programs, Late दिखाएँ बाँधने दूसरी in संचयी average viewers over time and third in number of episodes over time.
The show लीड other late night shows in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific समय, लकिन is अंकित Monday through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m., and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second Thursday एपीसोड प्रायः airs on Friday of that week.
In 2002, Late Show with David Letterman was ranked No. 7 on TV Guide 's 50 महानतम tv shows of सब Time.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by then, Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host.
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television program on Bravo, set in Orange County, California.
It was the first the Real Housewives program in the series.
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy जीवनदान of ये housewives, as वे shop, get plastic surgery, gossip, fight and live lavishly.
The financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast, has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses, evictions, mortgage defaults, foreclosures, and marital stress—all अंकित in प्रगतिशील सीज़न of the show.
cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual, a group of individuals, or an organization.
It may include the बनाना of गलत आरोपों or statements of fact ( as in defamation ), monitoring, making threats, identity theft, damage to data or equipment, the solicitation of minors for sex, or gathering information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable person, in possession of the same information, would लिहाज़ it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress.
Cyberstalking is different from spatial or offline stalking in that it occurs through the उपयोग of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक संचार प्रौद्योगिकी such as the internet.
however, it sometimes leads to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both are criminal offenses.
Cyberstalking shares important characteristics with offline stalking.
Many stalkers – ऑनलाइन or बंद – हैं प्रेरित by a desire to control their victims.
A cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन stranger or a person whom the target knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit involvement of other people online who do not even know the target.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play under state anti-stalking कानून, बदनामी कानून, and harassment laws.
A cyberstalking conviction can परिणाम in a restraining अनुक्रम, probation, or even criminal penalties against the assailant, including jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another, or लिये पत्राचार between such organizations and their customers, clients and other external parties.
The overall style of letter will depend on the संबंध between the parties concerned.
There are many कारण to लिखें a business letter.
It could be to request direct information or action from another party, to order supplies from a supplier, to identify a mistake that was committed, to reply directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
Even today, the business letter is still very useful because it produces a स्थाई record, is confidential, formal and delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish, inhabiting shallow स्ट्रीम, तालाबों, rivers and lakes, and less commonly found living in brackish water.
Historically, they have been of major importance in artisan fishing in Africa and the Levant, and are of increasing importance in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, लकिन generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime film starring Tom Hanks and Beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters, Turner और hooch क्रमशः.
The film also stars Mare Winningham, Craig T. नेल्सन, and Reginald VelJohnson.
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was originally slated to be निर्देशित by हेनरी Winkler, but he was terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
It was co-written by Michael Blodgett from Beyond the घाटी of the डॉल fame.
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to इस फिल्मी ( exactly तीन महीने earlier ), Turner & Hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success, even though K-9 had a very similar plot.
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV श्रेणी थी बना और भागा as a part of The Magical World of Disney.
इस is a सूची of Israeli airports, sorted by location.
प्रवेश to Ovda Airport
Terminal 3 at Ben गुरियन
प्लेन landing at Be'er Sheva ( Teyman )
eilat विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born जर्मनी राजनेता और the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ).
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and dictator of Nazi Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi Germany, World युद्ध II in Europe, and the Holocaust.
हिटलर थी a decorated veteran of World War I.
He joined the German Workers ' Party ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921.
In 1923, he attempted a तख्तापलट d'état in म्यूनिख, ज्ञात as the Beer Hall Putsch.
the विफल तख्तापलट resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment, during which time he wrote his memoir, Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ).
After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, और anti-communism साथ charismatic छाये और Nazi propaganda.
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933, he रूपांतरित the वाइमर Republic into the Third Reich, a single-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New Order of absolute Nazi German hegemony in महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय.
To this end, his foreign and domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` जीना स्पेस '' ) for the Germanic people.
He निर्देशित the rearmament of Germany and the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht in September 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
Under Hitler 's rule, in 1941 German forces and their European allies occupied सबसे of Europe and North Africa.
In 1943, Germany had been forced onto the defensive and suffered a श्रेणी of escalating defeats.
In the final days of the war, during the Battle of Berlin in 1945, हिटलर शादीशुदा उसके long-time partner, Eva Braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two days later, the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army, और उनके शवों यहूद burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered the प्रमुख कारण of the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
His antisemitic policies and racially प्रेरित विचारधारा resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5 million Jews, and millions of other people deemed racially inferior.
अंगूठा
A domain name is an identification string that defines a फ्रेम of प्रशासनिक autonomy, authority, or control on the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the नियम और procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS ).
Technically, any name registered in the डीएनएस is a domain name.
Domain names हैं प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न networking contexts and application-specific naming and addressing purposes.
In general, a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource, such as a personal computer used to access the अंतरजाल, a सर्वर कंप्यूटर होस्टिंग a वेब साईट, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet.
Domain names are organized in अधीनस्थ स्तर ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain, which is nameless.
The first-level नियत of डोमेन names हैं the top-level domains ( TLDs ), including the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), such as the prominent domains com, info, net and org, and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks to the अंतरजाल, बनाएँ अन्य सरेआम accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
The पंजीकरण of ये डोमेन names is usually administered by domain name registrars who sell their services to the public.
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain name that is completely specified in the hierarchy of the डीएनएस, having no omitted parts.
डोमेन names हैं प्रायः लिखा in lowercase, although labels in the Domain Name System are case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the molecular formula NO3− and a molecular mass of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates also describe the सशुल्क कार्यात्मक group RONO2.
These nitrate esters हैं a specialized class of explosives.
A wheat कटाई in Idaho
इस photo from a 1921 encyclopedia shows a tractor ploughing a crop field.
Agriculture is a major industry in the United States and the country is a जाल निर्यातक of food.
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007, वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख farms, covering an area of, an average of per farm.
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states, it is विशेषकर concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा, arable land known as the Great Plains, which encompasses the central region of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, named after Tanzanian student Erasto Mpemba, is the assertion that warmer जल can freeze faster than colder water.
Although there is anecdotal support लिये the प्रभाव, there is no agreement on exactly what the effect is and under what circumstances it occurs.
There have been reports of similar phenomena since ancient times, although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated.
The phenomenon seems contrary to ऊष्मागतिकी, लकिन a number of possible explanations for the effect have been proposed.
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise परिभाषा of `` जमने '' और कंट्रोल a विशाल क्रमांक of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the effect.
the siamese (, ) is one of the first distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental cat.
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam ), where they are one of several native breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became एक of the most popular breeds in Europe and North America.
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue, Washington, with 64 stores in the Puget Sound region of Washington state and in the पोर्टलैंड, Oregon metropolitan area.
In economics, the money supply or धन भण्डार, is the total amount of monetary assets available in an economy at a specific time.
There are several ways to define `` money, '' but standard measures usually include currency in circulation and demand deposits ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ).
Money सप्लाई data are recorded and published, usually by the government or the central bank of the country.
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in money supply because of its प्रभाव on the दाम स्तर, महंगाई, the exchange rate and the business cycle.
That relation between money and कीमतें is historically संबद्ध साथ the quantity theory of money.
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth और long-term दाम महंगाई, at least for rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy.
That is, a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in its money supply also saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
This is one reason for the reliance on monetary policy as a अर्थात् of controlling inflation.
The nature of this causal कड़ी is the subject of contention.
Some heterodox economists argue कि the धन सप्लाई is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the economy, not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy.
In addition, those economists seeing the central bank 's कंट्रोल over the money supply as feeble say that there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate.
First, in the aftermath of a recession, when many resources हैं underutilized, an बढ़ाएँ in the money supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of inflation.
Second, if the velocity of money, i.e., the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply, परिवर्तन, an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई could have either no प्रभाव, an exaggerated effect, or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP.
लोगो for IMAX.
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema, Wichita, Kansas, USA, 601 सीटे.
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm negative areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion picture film format and a set of cinema प्रक्षेप standards created by the Canadian company IMAX Corporation.
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far greater size and resolution than conventional फिल्मी प्रणालियों.
Since 2002, कुछ विशेषता films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into IMAX format for display in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX.
IMAX is the most widely used system for special-venue film presentations.
, there are 697 IMAX theatres in 52 countries.
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's television show produced by क्लाइव vanderburgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as खूब as many PBS stations throughout the United States.
It was set in a department स्टोर, आधारित on the फ्लैगशिप location of the now defunct Simpson 's in Toronto.
Many sequences लिये it यहूद शॉट at the Queen Street West and Yonge Street store after hours.
संविधानवाद, in इसके सबसे सामान्य अर्थ, is `` a जटिल of विचार, attitudes, और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle कि the प्राधिकार of सरकारी गर्भाशयी इससे और is सीमित by a देह of आधारभूत विधि ''.
A political organization is संवैधानिक to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control for the protection of the interests and liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As described by political scientist and constitutional scholar David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze, cold-stimulus headache, or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ), is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly संबद्ध साथ खपत ( विशेषकर जल्दी खपत ) of ठंडा beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ), and is believed to result from a nerve response causing rapid constriction and swelling of रक्त बरतन or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head.
The rate of intake for cold foods has महरूम पढ़ाई as a contributing factor.
There are people who can not अनुभव `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms.
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since at least 31 जनवरी 1937, contained in a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by रेबेका Timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The first published use of the term brain freeze, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, थी on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : नोट `` s '' बल्कि than `` z '' ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 and set to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in many countries, especially in the English-speaking world ; its परंपरागत use being to celebrate the start of the New Year at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is also sung at funerals, graduations और as a farewell or ending to other occasions.
The international Boy Scout youth movement, in many countries, उपयोग it as a close to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be अनूदित into अंग्रेज़ी वस्तुतः as `` बूढ़ा long चूंकि '', or more idiomatically, `` long long ago '', `` days gone by '' or `` old times ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the first line of the chorus, might be loosely अनूदित as `` for ( the sake of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), and James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the समतुल्य of `` Once upon a time...
`` in his retelling of fairy tales in the Scots language.
बेन schulz, player of Leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous additional letters, is an Internet meme named for a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG, World of Warcraft.
The character became popular due to a वीडियो of the खेल that circulated around the Internet.
The phenomenon has since spread beyond the boundaries of the गेमिंग जातियाँ into other online and mainstream media.
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland, California, United States, in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning from San Francisco, BART Police officers detained Oscar Grant and several other passengers on the platform at the fruitvale BART Station.
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another अधिकारी यहूद restraining Grant, who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest.
Officer Mehserle stood and, according to witnesses, said : `` Get back, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the back ; mehserle appeared stunned, put his hands to his head and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
दौरान उसके अदालत testimony, Mehserle said that Grant then exclaimed, `` You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was pronounced dead the next morning at highland Hospital in Oakland.
The events were captured on अनेक digital video and cell phone cameras.
The footage was disseminated to मीडिया outlets and to various websites, where it was watched millions of times.
The following days saw both peaceful and हिंसक विरोध.
The shooting has been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, Alameda County prosecutors चार्ज mehserle with murder for the shooting.
He resigned उसके स्थिति और pleaded not guilty.
The विचारण began on June 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued that Mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol, intending to use his Taser when he saw ग्रान्ट reaching लिये उसके waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles judge to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil rights attorney John Burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle was found अपराधी of involuntary manslaughter और नहीं अपराधी of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial protests against the ruling were शांतिपूर्वक व्यवस्थित ; looting, arson, destruction of property, and small riots broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 people were आखिरकार arrested.
On Friday, July 9, 2010, the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights case against Mehserle ; the federal government can prosecute उसे independently for the same act under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
The Department of Justice will be working with the U.S. Attorney 's दफ्तर in San Francisco and the FBI.
On November 5, 2010, Mehserle was sentenced to two सालो, ऋण time served.
He served his time in the Los Angeles County Jail, occupying a private कोशिका away from other prisoners.
He was released on June 13, 2011 और is अभी on parole.
Major प्रतिनिधि of the Harlem Renaissance.
The हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण was a cultural movement that spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` New Negro Movement '', named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City, अनेक french-speaking ब्लैक writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have spanned इससे परिचय 1919 जबतक the जल्दी or mid-1930s.
Many of its ideas lived on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '', as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of Negro Life hosted a party for black writers where many white publishers were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ).
African States between 500 BCE and 1500 CE
Obelisk at temple of लक्सर, मिश्र.
c. 1200 bce.
African knight of Baguirmi in full padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of Homo sapiens in East Africa, continuing into the उपस्थित as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states.
Some early प्रमाण of कृषि in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE, and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt, and बाद in नुबिया, the मग़रिब और the सींग of अफ़्रीकी.
During the Middle Ages, Islam स्प्रेड through the regions.
Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel, a major बीच of मुस्लिम संस्कृति was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture, Mali Empire, Ashanti Empire, Kingdom of Mapungubwe, Kingdom of Sine, Kingdom of Saloum, Kingdom of Baol, Kingdom of ज़िम्बाब्वे, Kingdom of Kongo, Ancient Carthage, Numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th century, Europeans and Arabs took slaves from वेस्ट, सेंट्रल और southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade.
European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the हाथापाई लिये Africa of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
following struggles लिये स्वतंत्रता in अनेक भाग of the continent, as well as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history रै महरूम चुनौतीपूर्ण लिये शोधकर्ताओं in the फ़ील्ड of African studies because of the scarcity of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of oral history, historical linguistics, पुरातत्व और आनुवंशिकी have been crucial.
Curry Foley was the first player in Major League Baseball history to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one batter hitting a सिंगल, a दोगुना, a ट्रिपल, और a घर चलाएं in the same game.
collecting the hits in that order is known as a `` natural cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 टाइम्स since the first by Curry Foley in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in एमएलबी इतिहास ) ; it रै been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 offensive levels, the probability of an average MLB player hitting for a cycle against an average team in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to परिचय 2.5 चक्र in a 162-game season with 30 teams.
In अन्य बेसबॉल leagues, the cycle is achieved less frequently.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( NPB ), the top-level baseball organization in Japan, have hit for the cycle, the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit लिये the साईकिल on the same day once in NPB history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history.
One NPB player has also hit for the cycle in an npb all-star game.
No player has ever hit for the cycle in the MLB All-Star Game or the postseason.
The प्रमुख स्लेव routes in medieval Africa.
This article discusses systems, history, and effects of गुलामी भीतर अफ़्रीकी.
See Arab slave trade, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, Maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in Africa ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the आंतरिक regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many centuries, and continues in the वर्तमान दिन.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent, as they were in much of the प्राचीन संसार.
In most अफ़्रीकी समाजों जहाँ slavery was prevalent, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began, many of the local slave प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
गुलामी in ऐतिहासिक अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the परिभाषाएं of गुलामी elsewhere in the संसार.
Debt slavery, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य slavery, and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions, slavery was a small भाग of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the early 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU उपयोग, कमिट चार्ज और मेमोरी सूचना, संजाल कार्यकलाप और आंकडे, logged-in उपयोक्ता, और प्रणाली services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be प्रयुक्त to नियत प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows Task Manager was introduced with खिड़कियाँ nt 4.0.
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application, which had far fewer features.
the कार्य सूची was capable of listing currently running processes and killing them, or creating a new process.
In Windows xp तभी, a shutdown मेनू is also present that allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, Restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a program ज्ञात as कार्य to display the programs currently running.
This file was executed by कार्यशील the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action, single camera comedy -adventure television series about a trio of teenagers who fight and capture राक्षस और other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood.
Created and executive produced by Max Burnett, Greg Coolidge and Chris Morgan, the series premiered on निकलोडियन on सितंबर 18, 2009.
The second season premiered on June 25, 2011 and Nickelodeon cancelled the series midway through it 's second season.
The remaining episodes of ऋतु 2 यहूद aired on Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is घर to a विशाल संभावित of प्राकृतिक संसाधन and mineral wealth, its untapped deposits of raw minerals are estimated to be worth in excess of US $ 24 trillion, yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the time of इसके स्वतंत्रता in 1960, DRC was the second most industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive.
If the दर्शक stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and stares at a white object, a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case, it will be cyan on magenta ).
This can also be achieved by the दर्शक closing his/her eyes and tilting their head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original चित्र has ceased.
One of the most common afterimages is the उज्जवल glow that seems to float before one 's eyes after looking into a light source for a few seconds.
Closing the eye can help achieve a better sense of the color in इसके अपना aspect.
Afterimages come in two forms, negative ( inverted ) and positive ( retaining original color ).
The प्रक्रम पीछे positive afterimages is unknown, though thought to be related to neural adaptation.
On the other hand, negative afterimages हैं a retinal घटना and are well understood.
Lost is an American serial drama television series that premiered on सितंबर 22, 2004 on the अमरीकी Broadcasting Company ( ABC ).
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof, based upon an original pilot script titled nowhere लिखा by जेफरी Lieber.
Six seasons of the show aired, in addition to numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes.
ABC announced that Lost would end after six seasons, having produced a कुल of 121 episodes.
The series follows the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash on a passenger जेट, oceanic उड़ान 815, flying from Sydney to Los Angeles after it crashes on a tropical island in the South Pacific.
The series also includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they include the `` Others ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as well as a समूह of लोगों जो arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically features action on the island as well as a secondary कथानक इससे another पाइंट in a अक्षर 's life.
Season 6 features a detailing of the जीवनदान of the survivors in a अलग reality, as if the flight had never crashed.
In the following list, the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or characters who are featured in the secondary storyline of each episode.
`` No.
in श्रेणी '' refers to the episode 's number in the overall series, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the episode 's number in each particular ऋतु.
`` U.S. viewers ( लाख ) '' refers to the number of Americans in millions who watched the episode live.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced, the last of which aired on may 23, 2010.
All seasons are available on DVD in Regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in Regions A and B.
Flat feet ( भी पुकारा pes planus or गिरे arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot collapses, with the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of later increased चोट, or पैर समस्याएं, due to चपटा feet, in a population of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems.
However, these studies can not be used to judge possible future damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated with foot symptoms, or certain symptoms in other parts of the body ( such as the leg or back ) संभवतः referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to gen x, is the पीढी born after the Western post-World War II baby boom.
Demographers, historians and commentators use beginning birth dates from the early 1960s to the जल्दी 1980s.
The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : किस्से लिये an Accelerated Culture.
Before that, it had been used for विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
Pressure ulcers, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, are localized injuries to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence, as a result of दबाव, or दबाव in संयोजन साथ shear and/or friction.
Most commonly this will be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the hips, but other sites such as the elbows, knees, ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected.
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft tissue so कि रक्त flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
shear is also a cause ; shear pulls on blood vessels that feed the skin.
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in व्यक्तियों who are not moving about or are confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed that other factors can influence the tolerance of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development.
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), रोगों कि reduce blood flow to the skin, such as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin, such as paralysis or neuropathy.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the age of the person, medical conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis, मधुमेह or infection ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if found early, pressure ulcers can be very मुश्किल to prevent in critically ill patients, frail elders, wheelchair users ( especially where spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients.
Primary prevention is to redistribute pressure by turning the रोगी regularly.
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is well documented since at least the 19th century.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, eating a balanced diet with adequate protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to मूत्र and stool is very important.
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital settings is high, but improvements are being made.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada, there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired व्यापकता of दबाव छाले इससे 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however, एड़ी छाले यहूद the most common facility-acquired location in the survey.
Overboard is a 1987 अमरीकी romantic comedy film starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was directed by गैरी Marshall, produced by Roddy McDowell, and loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away.
In turn, overboard थी adapted into the 2006 South Korean television series, Couple or Trouble.
Green Bay is a city in and the county सीट of भूरा काउंटी in the u.S. state of Wisconsin, located at the head of Green Bay, a sub-basin of Lake Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox River.
It has an elevation of ऊपर sea level and is located north of Milwaukee.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 104,057 at the 2010 census.
It is the third-largest city in the state of Wisconsin, बाद मिल्वौकी and Madison.
it is भी the third-largest city on the west shore of Lake Michigan, after Chicago and Milwaukee.
Green खाड़ी is घर to the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the National Football League, making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area, which covers Brown, Kewaunee, and Oconto Counties and था a संयुक्त जनसांख्यिकी of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
Green Bay is an industrial city with several meatpacking and paper plants, and a port on ग्रीन Bay, an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum, with exhibitions of आर्ट, इतिहास, और विज्ञान ; और the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland.
In females, an acute rise of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and विकास of the कॉर्पस luteum.
In males, जहाँ lh था भी महरूम पुकारा अंतरालीय cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ), it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone.
It acts synergistically साथ FSH.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez ( April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995 ), ज्ञात बस as Selena, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` top लैटिन कलाकार of the '90s '' और `` बेहतरीन selling लैटिन कलाकार of the decade '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits.
Selena had the most कामयाब singles of 1994 and 1995, `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más ``.
वो थी पुकारा `` the Queen of Tejano music `` and the Mexican equivalent of Madonna.
Selena released her first album, सेलिना y Los Dinos, at the age of twelve.
She जीती मादा Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording contract with EMI a few years later.
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s, especially in Spanish-speaking countries, and she had begun रिकॉर्डिंग in अंग्रेज़ी as well.
Selena was murdered at the age of 23 on March 31, 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar, the पूर्व अध्यक्ष of उसके प्रशंसक क्लबों.
On April 12, 1995, two weeks after उसके मौत, जार्ज W. Bush, governor of Texas at the time, declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
Warner Bros. produced Selena, a film based on her life starring Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's life was also the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena.
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized bronze statue ( Mirador de la Flor in कॉर्पस christi, Texas ) and a Selena museum opened there.
She has sold over 60 million albums worldwide, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling artists of all time.
She is also the only female artist to have five albums in U.S. बिलबोर्ड 200 at the same time.
German stahlhelm from World War II
Insignia of the Bolivian Army Colorados regiment, showing a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( बहुवचन, stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel helmet ''.
The Imperial German Army began to replace the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked कॉम्बैट हेल्मेट ) साथ the stahlhelm during World War I in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a जेनेरिक steel helmet, and more specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape, was an instantly recognizable icon for military imagery और became a आम तत्व of सैन्य प्रचार on both sides, just like the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name was also used by the stahlhelm, a paramilitary nationalist organization established at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the production and emission of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence, is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट ( संदीप्ति ) without emission of heat
स्फुरदीप्ति, a विशिष्ट type of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
radioluminescence, production of luminescence in a material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the अंधेरा दौरे, a 2008 concert tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub city for Lufthansa and receives flights from Star Alliance carriers.
Airline hubs are airports क्रमित as विशाल, मीडियम, छोटी, and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport categories which are re-evaluated every year based on number of commercial passengers.
The more आम लकिन अनौपचारिक use for the phrase airline hub is an airport that an airline uses as a transfer point to get passengers to their intended destination.
It is part of a hub and spoke model, where travelers moving between airports नहीं served by direct flights change planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the Point to Point model.
Many hubs of the airlines are also situated at एयरपोर्ट in the cities of the respective head offices.
Some airlines may use only a single हब, जबकि other airlines use multiple hubs.
Hubs are used for both passenger flights as well as कार्गो फ़्लाइट.
Many airlines भी उपयोग फ़ोकस cities, which function much the same as hubs.
एयरलाइंस may भी उपयोग secondary hubs, a non-technical term for large focus cities.
A hub in the मध्य of a रूट is अधिक प्रभावी than at either समाप्त as connecting traffic more easily fills the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
Hollow lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta.
Across the valley the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus are in evidence.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic यूनानी : ), or Lacedaemon, was a prominent city-state in ancient Greece, situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in Laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century BC, when the आक्रमणकारी dorians subjugated the लोकल, non-dorian population.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the dominant सैन्य land-power in ancient Greece.
Given its military pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall नेता of the combined Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 और 404 bc, Sparta was the principal enemy of Athens during the Peloponnesian War, from which it emerged victorious, though at great cost.
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the बैटल of leuctra in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece.
However, it maintained its राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता जबतक the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC.
It then underwent a long period of decline, especially in the Middle Ages, जब अनेक spartans moved to live in Mystras.
Modern Sparta is the capital of the Greek regional unit of Laconia and a center for the processing of goods such as citrus and olives.
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system and constitution, which completely focused on military training and excellence.
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens, who enjoyed full rights ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan फ़्री मेन उठाया as spartans ), perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and education regimen, and Spartan phalanges were widely considered to be among the best in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably अधिक अधिकारों और समता to men than elsewhere in the classical world.
Sparta was the विषय of fascination in its own day, as well as in the West following the revival of classical learning.
This love or admiration of Sparta is known as Laconism or laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in which users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams.
The players that an individual is able to manage are professional American फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी in the National Football League.
The different actions people are able to make are drafting, व्यापार, adding or dropping players, and changing rosters.
Due to the growth of the Internet, Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity, particularly because Fantasy फ़ुटबॉल प्रदाताओं ऐसे as ईएसपीएन, याहू, सीबीएस, और the NFL itself are able to keep track of statistics entirely online, eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
Most leagues have a single week चैंपियनशिप in Week 16 of the NFL season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual अंकित जनसांख्यिकी figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest अनुमान, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the कुल number of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
the uscb estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
According to a पृथक अनुमान by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to बढ़ाएँ to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or भी overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the इंसान anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो पहलू, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define क्युकी different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or ट्रंक, मांसपेशियां of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical स्थिति.
In other positions, other actions may be performed.
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold of any shape that is made by a bar producer बैठक मानक शर्तें of manufacture, labeling, and record keeping.
Larger gold bars that are produced by pouring the molten मेटल into molds are called ingots.
Smaller बार may be manufactured by minting or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets.
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by सेंट्रल banks and traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar.
The kilobar, which is to say 1000 grams in mass, is the bar that is more manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment.
The प्रीमियम on ये बार जब traded is बहुत कम over the spot value of the gold making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, although some investors, particularly in Europe, prefer the brick shape.
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback in the National Football League, playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982, then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning, current नई यॉर्क दिग्गज starting क्वार्टरबैक Eli Manning, and former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
वकालत is a राजनैतिक प्रक्रम by an व्यक्तिगत or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within political, economic, and social systems and institutions.
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes including media campaigns, पब्लिक बोलना, commissioning और प्रकाशन research or polls or the filing of an amicus brief.
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct approach is made to legislators on an issue which plays a significant भूमिका in आधुनिक राजनीती.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. and Canada are using सोशल media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical तिरंगा of ग्रीन, श्वेत, and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors were adopted by Mexico following स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन during the country 's War of Independence, and subsequent First Mexican Empire.
The current flag was adopted in 1968, but the overall design has been used since 1821, when the First National Flag was created.
The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the उपयोग of the नेशनल flag has been in place since 1984.
Red, white, and ग्रीन are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico.
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for tenochtitlan ( अभी Mexico City ), the center of their empire.
It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island.
The form of the coat of arms was most recently संशोधित in 1968.
A ribbon in the नेशनल रंगों is at the bottom of the coat of arms.
Throughout history, the flag has changed four times, as the design of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the ध्वज have been modified.
However, the coat of arms रै था the वही सुविधाएँ throughout : an त्रिभुज, पकड़कर a serpent in its talon, is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake.
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their देवताओं बताई उन्हें to निर्माण a नगर जहाँ वे स्पॉट an eagle on a nopal eating a serpent, which is now Mexico City.
The current national flag, the Fourth National Flag, is also used as the Mexican naval ensign by जहाजों पंजीकृत in Mexico.
A destination विपणन संगठन or सम्मेलन and visitor bureau promotes a town, city, region, or country in order to increase the number of visitors.
It promotes the development and marketing of a destination, focusing on convention sales, tourism marketing, and services.
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits from tourists and business travelers, जिससे generates overnight आवास लिये a गंतव्य, visits to restaurants, and shopping revenues.
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism marketing organizations in their respective tourist destinations, as वे are directly responsible for marketing the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors.
DMOs produce billions of dollars in direct and indirect revenue and taxes for their गंतव्यों ' economies साथ their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination marketing organizations are often called travel, सम्मेलन, visitors, or tourism bureaux, welcome centers, information centers and more.
regardless of the नाम, these organizations offer many services to the traveling public.
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is एक of the largest species of deer in the world, and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ), but evidence from a 2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species.
This एनिमल चाहिए नहीं be उलझन with the larger moose ( Alces alces ), to which the name `` elk '' applies in Eurasia.
Apart from the moose, the only other member of the deer family to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in forest and forest-edge आवास, feeding on grasses, plants, leaves, and bark.
Although native to North America and पूर्वी एशिया, they have adapted well to countries where they have been introduced, including Argentina, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic species and ecosystems into which they have been introduced.
Male elk have large antlers which are शेड प्रत्येक year.
Males also engage in ritualized mating व्यवहार दौरान the rut, including posturing, antler wrestling ( sparring ), and bugling, a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases, some of which can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate infectious diseases from elk populations, largely through vaccination, have had mixed success.
Some cultures revere the elk as a आध्यात्मिक force.
In parts of Asia, antlers and their velvet are used in परंपरागत दवाइयाँ.
Elk are hunted as a खेल प्रजाति ; the मांस is leaner और उच्चतर in प्रोटीन than बीफ or मुर्गा.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It पुरस्कार certificates, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae.
With some males exceeding in वज़न, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger.
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी resides in Gir Forest National Park in India ) while other types of lions have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times.
Until the late Pleistocene, about 10,000 years ago, the lion was the सबसे फैली विशाल जमीन स्तनधारी after humans.
They were मिला in most of Africa, across Eurasia from western Europe to India, and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru.
The lion is a vulnerable प्रजाति, having देखी a प्रमुख जनसांख्यिकी decline of 30–50 % over the past two decades in its African range.
Lion populations are untenable बाहर designated reserves and national parks.
Although the cause of the decline is नहीं fully समझा, habitat loss and conflicts with humans are currently the greatest causes of concern.
Within Africa, the West अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is particularly endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild, while in captivity they can live longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 years, as injuries sustained from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity.
They typically inhabit सवाना and grassland, although they may take to bush and forest.
Lions are unusually social compared to other cats.
A pride of lions consists of related females and औलाद और a छोटी number of adult males.
Groups of female lions typically hunt together, preying mostly on large ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone परभक्षी, हालांकि वे scavenge as opportunity allows.
While lions do not typically hunt humans, कुछ have been known to do so.
Sleeping mainly during the day, lions are primarily nocturnal, हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the पुरूष शेर is easily recognised by its mane, and its face is one of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human culture.
Depictions have existed इससे the अपर paleolithic काल, साथ उत्कीर्णन and paintings from the Lascaux and Chauvet Caves, through virtually all ancient and medieval cultures where they once occurred.
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures, in paintings, on नेशनल ध्वज, और in समकालीन films and literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries since the time of the Roman Empire, and have been a key species sought for प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the संसार since the late 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the history of video games, the seventh generation of consoles is the previous generation, and शामिल consoles released since late by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For home consoles, the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005 with the release of Xbox 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
Each new console introduced a new type of भेदन in technology.
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD रिज़ॉल्यूशन, the प्लेस्टेशन 3 offered, in addition to FHD gaming, HD movie playback via a built-in 3D Blu-ray Disc player, and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining Nintendo in the गति मार्केट, सोनी released the PlayStation Move in September 2010.
The PlayStation Move features motion sensing gaming, similar to कि of the Wii.
microsoft भी joined Sony and Nintendo, with its Kinect.
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ), Kinect does not उपयोग कोई परिरक्षक of any sort and makes the users the `` controller. ''
Having sold 8 million units in its first 60 days on the market, Kinect has claimed the Guinness संसार रिकार्ड of होने the `` तीव्रतम selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the एक्सबॉक्स 360 offers wired controllers as a standalone product, all PlayStation 3 controllers can be used in wired and wireless configurations.
starting साथ हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the सातवाँ पीढी began on 21 नवम्बर 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a `` तीसरा pillar '', alongside निन्टेंडो 's मौजूदा खेल लड़के अग्रिम और gamecube consoles.
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) सुविधाएँ a टच स्क्रीन और built-in माइक्रोफोन, and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the revised version of the NDS, the DSi, features two built in cameras, the ability to download games from the DSi store, and a web browser.
The PlayStation Portable, or psp, released बाद the वही साल on 12 December 2004, followed a different pattern.
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical disc format, Universal Media Disc ( UMD ), as its primary भंडार media.
Sony also gave the PSP robust multi-media capability, connectivity with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs, and Internet कनेक्टिविटी.
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to the internet through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन और Nintendo DS Browser, as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles, PlayStation Portable sales have consistently lagged behind those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable has the भेद of होने the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( often shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the eighth studio album by English rock band the Beatles.
Released in June 1967, the album included songs such as `` साथ a छोटी सहायता इससे My Friends ``, `` Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds ``, and `` A Day in the Life ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), Sgt. Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated balladry, साइकेडेलिक, music hall, and symphonic influences.
During the Sgt. Pepper sessions, the group improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental रिकॉर्डिंग techniques.
Producer George मार्टिन 's अभिनव दृष्टिकोण included the use of an orchestra.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth, was inspired by a sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a collage of some of their पसंदीदा हस्तियाँ.
Sgt. Pepper was a worldwide critical and commercial success, spending 27 weeks at the top of the UK Album चार्ट और 15 सप्ताह at number one on the US Billboard 200.
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style, the album was critically acclaimed upon रिलीज और जीती four Grammy Awards in 1968.
With an अनुमानित 32 million copies sold, it is one of the world 's best selling albums.
Sgt. Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album ever, and has been named the greatest album of all time by both All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral बांटती of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories, processing sensory input, comprehending language, storing new memories, emotion, and deriving meaning.
The human lungs are the organs of श्वसन in humans.
Humans have two lungs, a सही lung and a left lung.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is थोड़ा smaller consisting of only two lobes ( the left lung has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 लाख alveoli, having a total surface area of about ( ) in adults — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis court.
Furthermore, if all of the capillaries that surround the alveoli were unwound और रखी समाप्त to समाप्त, वे होता extend for about.
Each lung weighs, इसलिए बनाना the संपूर्ण organ about.
Human फेफड़े
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( one for each side ) at the level of T4.
This junction is also known as the carina.
The conducting zone contains the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) are made up of airways.
The conducting zone has no gas एक्सचेंज साथ the रक्त, and is reinforced with cartilage in order to hold open the airways.
The conducting zone warms the एयर to और humidifies the air.
It also cleanses the एयर by निकालना अणु via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways.
The फेफड़े हैं surrounded by the rib cage.
The respiratory zone is the साईट of gas exchange with blood.
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline acting on the बीटा receptors causes bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, which acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting टोन of the bronchiolar smooth muscle.
इस कार्रवाई is related, although considered distinct from bronchoconstriction.
Many other non-autonomic nervous और biochemical stimuli, including carbon dioxide and oxygen, are also involved in the regulation process.
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura, अस्तर the भीतरी वॉल of the thoracic cage, and the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles.
However, it often includes any form of lung tissue, also including bronchioles, bronchi, blood vessels and lung interstitium.
The margarita is a Mexican कॉकटेल consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice, often served with salt on the glass rim.
It is the most common tequila-based कॉकटेल in the United States.
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ), blended with ice ( frozen margarita ), or without ice ( सीधा up ).
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from gevrey-chambertin, côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red रंग संबद्ध साथ the Burgundy wine of the same name, which in turn is named after the Burgundy region of France.
The रंग बरगंडी is similar to other shades of dark red such as maroon.
When referring to the color, `` बरगंडी '' is प्रायः नहीं capitalized.
The first recorded use of `` burgundy '' as a color name in English was in 1881.
Grave of an unknown British soldier, killed in 1943 during the बैटल of Leros.
Because his identity is unknown, he is लापता in action.
Grave of an unknown American सिपाही in oise-aisne Cemetery.
मारे in 1917
Grave of an unknown छत्रसेना, killed in the Battle of Arnhem, 1944.
photographed in April 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers killed दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown Italian soldiers मारे दौरान World War II, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval मेमोरियल to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of अनजान फ्रेंच सैनिको killed during World War One.
Each concrete cross has a metal plaque bearing the शब्द `` Inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified फ्रेंच सैनिको who died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean ascaris मारे in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned अंतर्गत the Status of Missing to armed services personnel who are reported missing during active service.
They may have महरूम killed, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or deserted.
If deceased, neither उनके remains nor संगीन can be positively identified.
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk for सेवा कर्मियों लिये as long as there has been warfare.
Chamber of कॉमर्स भवन in Center.
This building is the original jail, निर्मित along with the Historic Courthouse.
Both sit on the कस्बा Square.
The रिओ Theater in Center
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora गली in Center is located next to the downtown section.
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center is one of the oldest congregations in the जातियाँ.
Center is a city in शेल्बी काउंटी, Texas, United States.
The population was 5,193 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is the county seat of Shelby County.
It is named for its location near the center of शेल्बी काउंटी, नहीं लिये इसके स्थान in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye effect in blue eyes with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common appearance of red pupils in color photographs of eyes.
It occurs जब using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक flash very close to the camera lens ( as with most compact cameras ), in ambient low light.
The effect appears in the eyes of इंसानो और पशु that have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally with a very bright light and somewhat distant from the actors, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is not visible to the rest of the दर्शक क्युकी it is reliant on the very small angle between the followspot operator and the light.
The University of California, Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as uc सांता बारबरा or ucsb ) is a public research university and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system.
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta, California, United States, from Santa Barbara and northwest of Los एंजिल्स.
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college, UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is one of America 's Public आइवी विश्वविद्यालयों, which recognizes top public research universities in the United States.
The university is a व्यापक डॉक्टरेट विश्वविद्यालयों और is organized into five colleges and schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees.
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students.
In 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National Universities '' and 10th among पब्लिक universities by U.S. News & World Report.
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the टाइम्स उच्चतर शिक्षा संसार विश्वविद्यालयों Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent $ 191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB houses twelve national research centers, सहित the प्रसिद्ध Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one Fields Medalist, 29 members of the National अकादमी of Sciences, 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering, and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 host on the arpanet और थी निर्वाचित to the Association of American Universities in 1995.
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete in the NCAA प्रभाग i बिग West Conference.
The Gauchos have जीती ncaa नेशनल championships in men 's soccer and men 's water polo.
Saint Joseph with the Infant यीशु by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of St. Joseph is in Western Christianity the principal feast day of Saint जोसेफ, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
He is also the step-father of Jesus of नासरत /jesus Christ.
It has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman Catholic Church ; Catholics who follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast.
Previous to 1962 it थी मनाये as a feast of the rank of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican Communion, and a feast or पर्व in the लूथरन गिरिजाघर.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day लिये कैंडल as खूब as for Canada, persons named Joseph, Josephine, etc., for religious institutes, schools and parishes bearing his name, and for carpenters.
It is also पिता 's दिन in some Catholic countries, mainly Spain, Portugal, and Italy.
March 19 was dedicated to Saint जोसेफ in अनेक पश्चिमी पंचांग by the दसवाँ century, and this custom was established in Rome by 1479.
Pope St. Pius V extended इसके उपयोग to the entire Roman Rite by his Apostolic Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, एपिस्कोपल Conferences may, if they wish, transfer it to a date outside Lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in honor of St. जोसेफ as जीवनसाथी of the धन्य Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church, the latter title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX.
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an अष्टक, after Divino Afflatu of St. Pius X ( see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast was also retitled the solemnity of Saint Joseph.
This celebration and its accompanying अष्टक was abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
it is स्टिल कायम by catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 or पहले missals.
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss. Philip and जेम्स, may 1, had faded from the memory of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century, that of Joseph the Worker was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of Ss. Philip and James, which had been celebrated on that date चूंकि the छठे सदी, was moved from its traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, which at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the Church calendar, was reduced to an optional मेमोरियल, the न्यूनतम rank for a saint 's day.
The पूर्वी परंपरागत गिरिजाघर celebrates Saint Joseph on the Sunday after Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित चार consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, spent a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the रिकॉर्डिंग of the album, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical बदलें became evident साथ the रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ), at which time Carey had separated from Mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording अनुबंध साथ Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized लिये कठोर exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, और after an unsuccessful period, returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong साथ `` became her most successful single of the 2000s, and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व, और ब्लैक Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, कैरी रै बेची more than 200 million records worldwide, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, वो थी सम्मानित as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
Carey was also named the best-selling मादा कलाकार of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
साथ the रिलीज of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was ranked second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey रै won five Grammy Awards, 17 World Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the गिनीज संसार Records, she is famed for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is any member of the bee genus bombus, in the family Apidae.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere हालांकि वे भी occur in South America.
They have महरूम introduced to नई जीलैंड और the Australian state of Tasmania.
Bumblebees are social insects that are characterised by ब्लैक और पीला देह hairs, often in bands.
However, some species have orange or red on their bodies, or may be entirely black.
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the बाल ( long, branched setae ), पुकारा pile, that covers their entire body, making them appear and feel fuzzy.
They are best विशिष्ट इससे similarly विशाल, फजी मधुमक्खियों by the रूप of the मादा हिन्द लेग, जिससे is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare, but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees, the hind leg is completely hairy, and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ).
Like their relatives the honey bees, bumblebees feed on nectar and gather pollen to फीड their young.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a Burger King in Eagle, Colorado.
In the United States, open carry is shorthand terminology for `` openly carrying a firearm in public '', as विशिष्ट from concealed carry, where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners openly carry firearms जबकि वे go परिचय उनके daily business, has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years.
This has been marked by a number of organized events intended to increase the visibility of open carry and public awareness परिचय the अभ्यास.
Proponents of open carry point to history and statistics, noting that criminals usually conceal their weapons.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, GeorgiaCarry.org and some भागीदार of the फ़्री राज्य प्रोजेक्ट, open carry has seen a revival in recent years, but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend.
The gun rights community has been मिश्रित in इसके response.
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, जबकि special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org और georgiacarry.org, and certain national groups such as the Gun Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the Brady Campaign and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति Plant in France.
France produces around three quarters of its विद्युत by nuclear power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear शक्ति स्टेशन will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 reactors are under निर्माण in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in तीस countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, although according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, Germany and स्विट्ज़रलैंड are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, देशों ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Color motion चित्र फिल्मी refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera, and to finished motion picture film, ready for use in a projector, which bears images in color.
The first color cinematography was by means of additive color systems such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A simplified additive system was विकसित by जार्ज अल्बर्ट Smith and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early systems used black-and-white film to फोटोग्राफ और project two or more component images through different color filters.
स्टिल from footage recorded by Edward Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks, duplicating interpositive and internegative stocks ) और eastman रंग धनात्मक 2 रसायन ( धनात्मक prints लिये सीधा प्रक्षेप ), प्रायः abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Fuji 's products are compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress.
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, which featured the hit song `` Foolish ``, और बेची over 503,000 नक़ल in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a Soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest opening week sales for a new female artist, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same week, she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart साथ `` foolish '', और `` कया 's Luv ? ``
( साथ Fat Joe ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always on Time ``, on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 charts in the same week, being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best समकालीन r & b एल्बम.
As of April 1st 2013, Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records worldwide.
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the third top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé.
She भी ended the दशक at number 38 on the Top Artist of the Decade list.
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling Music Singles Since 1990 for her single foolish लिये selling 7.2 million copies to-date.
Ashanti has an estimated net worth of $ 40 million डॉलर [ usd ].
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) ``, which reached number one on Billboard Hot 100, which was also in the शीर्ष 10 चार्ट at the वही समय as `` foolish '', `` सदा on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ), and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ).
Later that year, she was acclaimed as the `` Princess of hip-hop & r & b '' by her label and capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards.
Within seven सालो of ashanti 's करियर, वो has scored 16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100.
Ashanti has endorsed numerous products सहित गैप, Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, Mary J. Blige, Ella Fitzgerald, Smokey रॉबिन्सन, डोना Summer, and Blue Magic as her musical influences.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics alike, Ashanti has written/co-written the bulk of all her music.
She is फिलहाल working on her own publishing company entitled Written Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio album entitled The Declaration on June 3, 2008 and is currently in the studio working on her fifth.
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers for the `` Stand Up to Cancer '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 लाख डॉलर लिये कर्कट research.
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military aviation arm of the United States of America during and immediately after World War II, and the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of the संयुक्त States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United States Army, which in 1942 was divided functionally by कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम into तीन autonomous forces : the Army Ground Forces, the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ), and the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding general who reported सीधे to the Chief of Staff of the United States Army.
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among the Army Air Corps, General Headquarters Air Force, and ground forces corps area commanders, and thus became the first air organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the AAF was virtually autonomous अंदर the Army.
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and women in service and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, और 783 घरेलू bases in दिसम्बर 1943.
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men stationed overseas and operated from अधिक than 1,600 airfields विश्वव्यापी.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a वृहद स्वायत्तता in जिससे to विस्तार more efficiently, and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons required by a vastly increased force.
Although other nations already था पृथक एयर शक्तियां स्वतंत्र of the फौज or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों Royal Air Force and the German Luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its expansion and conduct of the युद्ध, the aaf became more than just an arm of the greater organization.
By the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध II the AAF had become virtually an independent service.
By regulation and कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम, the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War Department tasked only with organizing, training, and equipping combat units, limited in responsibility to the continental United States, as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces.
In reality, Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war in every part of the world, determining air policy and issuing orders बगैर transmitting उन्हें through the Chief of Staff.
This `` contrast between theory and fact is... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF. ''
The Freedom of Information अधिनियम ( foia ) is a संघीय स्वतंत्रता of information law that allows for the full or partial disclosure of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United States government.
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure, outlines mandatory disclosure procedures और अनुदान नौ छूटों to the statute.
It was originally signed into law by अध्यक्ष lyndon B. जॉनसन, despite his misgivings, on July 4, 1966 as and went into effect the following year.
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should not be confused with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states.
Many of those state अधिनियमों may be similar but not identical to the federal act.
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and political union of 27 member राज्य कि हैं स्तिथ primarily in Europe.
The EU operates through a system of supranational independent institutions and intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states.
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission, the परिषद of the European Union, the European Council, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors, and the European Parliament.
the यूरोपीय Parliament is elected every five years by EU citizens.
the EU 's de facto capital is Brussels.
The EU traces इसके origins इससे the European Coal and Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ), formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
In the intervening years the जातियाँ और इसके successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states and in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit.
The Maastricht Treaty स्थापित the European Union under its current name in 1993.
The latest major amendment to the constitutional basis of the EU, the Treaty of Lisbon, आए into force in 2009.
The eu रै विकसित a single market through a standardised system of laws that apply in all member states.
Within the शेंगेन क्षेत्रफल ( which includes 22 EU and 4 non-EU states ) passport controls have been abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, सेवाएं, और पूंजी, enact विधान in इंसाफ and home affairs, and maintain common policies on trade, agriculture, fisheries and regional development.
A monetary union, the eurozone, was established in 1999 and is composed of 17 member राज्य.
Through the Common Foreign और सुरक्षा Policy the EU has developed a role in external relations and defence.
Permanent diplomatic missions have महरूम established around the world.
The EU is represented at the United राष्ट्र, the WTO, the G8 and the G-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the world population, the EU, in 2012, generated a nominal gross domestic उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर, representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity, and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world.
The EU was the recipient of the 2012 नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार.
The Wales national rugby league team represent वेल्स in international rugby league football matches.
Currently the team is seventh in the rlif World Rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the रग्बी फ़ुटबॉल League, but an independent body, Wales Rugby League, now runs the team from Cardiff.
A total of three Welsh players have महरूम entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame.
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting teams, Wales strip has been primarily red for many years, including now.
However in their last World कप अभियान in 2000 they did wear a shirt featuring the Welsh flag, adding a touch of green and white.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' and so the टीमों logo on the shirt is a red dragon.
The team date back to 1907, making them the third oldest नेशनल side after England and New Zealand.
और it थी a touring New Zealand side that Wales first played against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly played England, since 1935 France, as well as welcomed the touring Australia and New Zealand teams, although they rarely toured themselves, not playing a मैच in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere until 1975.
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their दो biggest विरोधियों, इंग्लैण्ड और फ़्रांस, in the European Nations Cup, winning the trophy four times.
Wales have also competed in the World Cup on तीन अवसरों, the first time being in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date, surprisingly making the Semi-Finals on both occasions before being beaten by इंग्लैण्ड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया क्रमशः.
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup, being the दूसरी उच्चतम ranked side not to do so, having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches.
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new सिर कोच और appointed Lee Briers as captain, having played for Wales since 1998.
In हाल सीज़न वेल्स have लिया विशाल strides under former player Iestyn Harris who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup successes, which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the फलन of the myocardium ( the दिल मांसपेशी ) लिये कोई कारण, usually leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of the legs ).
People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of dangerous forms of irregular दिल ताल और sudden cardiac death.
The most आम रूप of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the word is obscure.
It is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its डेरिवेटिव ( ऐसे as कमीने and fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There are many common phrases which make use of the word, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the U.S. Department of Transportation 's definition of a यात्री गाडी, to औसत a car or ट्रक, used for passengers, excluding buses and trains.
the संयुक्त राज्य is घर to the largest यात्री गाडी मार्केट of कोई देश in the संसार.
Overall, there were an estimated 254.4 million registered passenger vehicles in the United States according to a 2007 DOT study.
This number, along with the average age of vehicles, has increased steadily since 1960, indicating a growing क्रमांक of vehicles per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to soon exceed the United राज्य ; by the end of 2012, there were over 240 million cars on the road in China.
The United States is also home to three large गाडी निर्माताओं : General Motors, Ford Motor Company and Chrysler, which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the शीर्ष तीन ; but is number five, behind Toyota and Honda.
The मोटर car रै clearly become an integral part of American life, with vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers.
Clinical laboratory in a Hospital setting showing several स्वचालित analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical specimens in order to get सूचना परिचय the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease.
In poker, players construct hands of five cards according to predetermined rules, which vary according to जिससे variant of poker is being played.
These हैंड्स हैं compared using a हाथ रैंकिंग प्रणाली कि is standard across all variants of poker, the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
In some variants, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
These hand rankings are also प्रयुक्त in कुछ other card games, and in poker dice.
The ranking of a particular हाथ is increased by सहित अनेक ताश of the same card rank, by all five cards being from the same suit, or by all five cards being of consecutive rank.
The relative ranking of the various hand categories is based on the संभाव्यता of होने randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
Bruce Randall hornsby ( born November 23, 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, and dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances, Hornsby draws frequently from classical, jazz, bluegrass, folk, Motown, gospel, rock, blues, and jam band musical परंपराओं साथ उसके songwriting और the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's रिकार्डिंग have महरूम recognised on a क्रमांक of अवसरों with industry awards, including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range, the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990, and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby has also achieved recognition for his solo albums and performances, उसके touring बैंड ब्रूस hornsby और the noisemakers, his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated साथ आभारी मुर्दे और थी a सदस्य of the बैंड इससे सितंबर 1990 to कूच 1992, playing at over एक सौ shows दौरान कि काल.
Sugarcane plantation in ग्रामीण Cuba
कृषि in क्यूबा रै निभाई an important part in the economy for several hundred years.
Agriculture contributes less than 10 percent to the gross domestic उत्पाद ( GDP ), but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population.
About 30 percent of the country 's land is used for क्रॉप cultivation.
The inefficient agricultural industry in Cuba has led to the need to आयात विशाल amounts of foods.
Cuba now imports about 80 % of the food it rations to the public.
The rationing program accounts for about a तीसरा of the food energy the average Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, Cuba is निर्भर on imports for only 16 % of its food.
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of The Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( The Big Game ) Mega लाखो drawing was in 2002 ( see below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 equal yearly installments ( unless the नकदी विकल्प is चुनी ) ; usually, the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no जैकपॉट विजेता लिये the $ 12,000,000 December 18, 2012 drawing, the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21.
( See नीचे लिये सूचना on how the game 's jackpot is funded. )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a nominal value of सालाना किश्तों.
A cash value option ( the usual choice ), when chosen by a jackpot winner ( देखिए नीचे ), pays the approximate present value of the installments.
Mega Millions currently uses a 5/56 ( white balls ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double मेट्रिक्स to चुनें इसके जीतना संख्याएँ.
Each खेल costs $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( कैलिफ़ोर्निया is the एक्सेप्शन ), वहीँ is an option, called Megaplier ( such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier थी बना उपलब्धियाँ to सब आचमन Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays and Fridays, including छुट्टियाँ.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings हैं आयोजित at wsb-tv in Atlanta, Georgia.
supervised by the जॉर्जिया Lottery.
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions, as well as in American lottery history, was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30, 2012 drawing in जिससे वहीँ यहूद तीन jackpot-winning टिकटें ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and Maryland.
All three tickets had महरूम claimed as of April 18, with each set of winners choosing the cash option.
is a Japanese manga series created by writer tsugumi ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata.
The main character is लाइट yagami, a ऊँची स्कूल छात्र who discovers a supernatural notebook, the `` Death Note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note grants its user the ability to kill anyone whose name and face they know, by लिखने the नाम in the notebook while picturing their face.
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and नियम a संसार `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the notebook, and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop him.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 chapters by shueisha in the Japanese manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006.
The series was also published in tankōbon स्वरूप in जापानी starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes.
The anime series aired in Japan इससे अक्तूबर 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the anime थी विकसित by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki.
A light novel based on the series, written by Nisio Isin, was released in Japan.
Additionally, विभिन्न video games have been published by Konami for Nintendo DS.
The series was adapted into live-action films released in Japan on जून 17, 2006, नवम्बर 3, 2006, and February 2, 2008.
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has published all the twelve volumes from the series, a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's मार्गदर्शिका '', as खूब as the लाइट novels.
The episodes from the anime first appeared in उत्तर अमेरिका as downloadable by IGN.
Viz later licensed the anime series और it aired on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon Network in the United States.
The live-action films briefly निभाई in certain North American theaters since 2008.
However, none of the video games have thus far been प्रकाशित in उत्तर America or Europe.
Death Note is one of Weekly shōnen jumps best-selling manga series of all time, with sales over 26.5 million copies.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), also known as All hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All hallows ' संध्या is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching हॉरर films.
New York City taxicabs during Midtown rush hour in मैनहटन
The taxicabs of नई यॉर्क नगर, साथ their distinctive yellow paint, are a widely recognized icon of the city.
Taxicabs हैं संचालित by निजी कंपनियाँ और licensed by the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles, including `` black cars '', commuter वैन और ambulettes.
`` Medallion taxis, '' the परिचित पीला कैब, हैं the only vehicles in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail.
schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of part of leaf, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem ऊतक is लकडी, हालांकि it is मिला throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, but it भी transports some nutrients through the plant.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating for the right to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the right of महिलाओं to vote and to run for office.
Limited voting rights were gained by women in Sweden, Finland and some western U.S. राज्य in the late 19th century.
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts, especially the अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद of महिलाओं ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New Zealand, then a self-governing British colony, granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश of South Australia did the same in 1895, but also permitted women to run for office.
Australia federated in 1901, and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal चुनावों from 1902, though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962.
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland, then part of the Russian साम्राज्य, जिससे भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला मादा members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections.
Norway followed, granting full महिलाओं 's suffrage in 1913.
In most Western countries, women 's suffrage came after World I War I I, साथ कुछ महत्वपूर्ण लेट अनुकूलक being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage has generally been पहचाना बाद राजनैतिक campaigns to obtain it were waged.
In many countries it was granted before सार्वभौमिक suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right अंतर्गत the सम्मेलन on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, adopted by the United Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic suspense novel, the लेखक 's पहला published book.
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity.Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism, सम्मेलन उपस्थिति of over 12 लाख, और annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million.
They are directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses, a group of elders in Brooklyn, New York, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' beliefs हैं आधारित on their interpretations of the Bible and they prefer to use their own translation, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe that the destruction of the present world system at Armageddon is imminent, and that the establishment of God 's kingdom on earth is the only solution लिये सब problems faced by mankind.
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's गवाह, आधारित on यशायाह 43:10–12, थी अपनाया in 1931 to distinguish themselves from other Bible Student groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door preaching, distributing literature such as The बुर्ज और जाग !
, and refusing military service and blood transfusions.
They consider use of the name Jehovah vital for proper इबादत.
They reject Trinitarianism, inherent immortality of the soul, and hellfire, जिससे वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe क्रिसमस, Easter, birthdays, or other holidays and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity.
Adherents commonly refer to उनके देह of beliefs as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider secular society to be morally corrupt and under the influence of शैतानी, और सबसे limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary actions शामिल disfellowshipping, their term for formal expulsion and shunning.
Baptized individuals who formally leave are considered disassociated और हैं भी shunned.
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant.
the धर्म 's स्थिति regarding ईमानदार आपत्ति to सैन्य सेवा और refusal to सलाम नेशनल ध्वज रै brought it into विरोध साथ कुछ सरकारें.
Consequently, Jehovah 's Witnesses have been persecuted और उनके activities are banned or restricted in some countries.
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced legislation related to civil अधिकारों in several countries.
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 franco-italian रोमांटिक Drama film directed by Bernardo Bertolucci which portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
It stars Marlon ब्रैंडो, Maria Schneider, and Jean-Pierre Léaud.
the फिल्मी 's कच्चा portrayal of sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy and drew various levels of government censorship.
The MPAA gave the film an X rating upon release in the United States.
After revisions यहूद made to the MPAA ratings code, it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997.
mgm released a censored R-rated cut in 1981.
The फिल्मी has its NC-17 rating for `` some explicit sexual content. ''
Windows XP is an operating system produced by Microsoft for use on personal computers, including home and business desktops, laptops and media centers.
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24, 2001, it is the second most popular version of Windows, based on installed user base.
The name `` xp '' is short for `` eXPerience '', highlighting the enhanced user experience.
Windows XP, the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME, was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by microsoft to be निर्मित on the खिड़कियाँ NT kernel.
Windows XP was released worldwide for retail बिक्री on October 25, 2001, and over 400 million copies were in use in January 2006.
it थी succeeded by Windows Vista in January 2007.
Direct OEM and retail sales of Windows XP ceased on जून 30, 2008.
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell assembled computers ) program until January 31, 2009.
on अप्रैल 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on April 8, 2014 and suggested that administrators begin preparing to migrate to a newer OS.
The NT -आधारd संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, जिससे are programmed in C, C++, and assembly, are known for their improved stability and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user इंटरफ़ेस, a बदलें Microsoft promoted as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the past versions of Windows, improved side-by-side assembly technology in Windows XP allows side-by-side installation, registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation.
It is also the first version of Windows to use product सक्रियण to combat illegal copying.
During Windows XP 's development, the project was codenamed `` Whistler '', after Whistler, British Columbia, as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics data उत्पन्न by जाल अनुप्रयोग, खिड़कियाँ xp थी the most widely used operating system until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased लगभग every month since at least November 2007, the first month for which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications.
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music और गीत लिखा in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively.
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a head '', which refers to a घोड़ा winning a race by the length of one head.
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who compares his addiction for horses with his attraction to महिलाओं.
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian from São Paulo, a much Italian-influenced area in Brazil, and also the birthplace of zequinha de abreu, composer of tico-tico no fubá.
Le प्रभा और gardel died in an airplane crash in Medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
Por una cabeza
The tango has since महरूम performed by numerous tango orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), सैंट of a स्त्री ( 1992 ), schindler 's सूची ( 1993 ), सच्चा झूठ ( 1994 ), टाइटैनिक ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( Uncut Version, 2003 ), All the King 's Men ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ), the beginning and ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry, I Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the movie Frida ( Salma Hayek, 2002 ), Gardel is heard singing it on a रेडियो.
It is also quoted in David Del Tredici 's `` शुभ News !
Nilda is Back '' ( from the song cycle Miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` The Tango Project '', who actually appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ).
John Williams arranged a संस्करण of the piece that appears on the album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have भी performed the piece together in live concerts.
In 2012 a dance version was released by the group `` Da Carrera '' featuring the original vocal रिकॉर्डिंग by कार्लोस Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is एक of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood pressure to घटी ; likewise, decreased blood pressure activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स, ज्ञात as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid sinuses, and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem.
subsequent परिवर्तन in blood pressure are mediated by the autonomic nervous system.
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative feedback लूप in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin system.
The Loma Prieta earthquake, also known as the Quake of '89 and the World Series Earthquake, was a major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on अक्तूबर 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm लोकल time.
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the भूकंप lasted 10–15 seconds and measured 6.9 on both the moment magnitude scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout उत्तरी California, injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless.
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series, featuring both of the Bay Area 's प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल टीमों, the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related sports coverage, this was the first major earthquake in the संयुक्त राज्य to have its initial jolt broadcast live on television.
Pawn in the मानक Staunton pattern
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in the game of शतरंज, historically representing infantry or, more particularly, armed peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the game with eight pawns, one on each square of the rank तत्काल in front of the other pieces.
( In algebraic notation, the white pawns start on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, while black pawns start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual pawns are referred to by the संचिका on which they stand.
For example, one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` White 's किंग 's बिशप साहूकार '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file, a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ), a queen pawn ( on the d-file ), a king pawn ( on the e-file ), and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay और lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
The armed forces of most developed countries have अभी removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ).
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the सैन्य include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security Council ( United States, United Kingdom, France, and Russia ), the Republic of China ( Taiwan ), Australia, Israel, South Africa, Argentina, and all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is the family of industrial methods for generating hydrogen.
Currently the dominant प्रौद्योगिकी लिये सीधा production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons.
अनेक अन्य methods are known including electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the United States थी अनुमानित to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in oil refining, and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 million टन यहूद an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन is an अनुमानित $ 100 अरब उद्योग.
A basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '', also known as a `` बीप '' ) is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point, or one part per ten thousand, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ', and in that context is written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator, although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
A आधार पाइंट is defined as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of मापन in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत differences of less than 1 % are discussed.
The सबसे आम उदाहरण is ब्याज दरों, where differences in interest rates of less than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage अंक is समतुल्य to a बदलें of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage अंक, आधार अंक avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute discussions about interest rates by dealing only with the absolute change in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a report says there has महरूम a `` 1 % बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % ब्याज रेट, इस could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative, 1 % of 10 % ), or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % interest rate, then we know that the interest rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis points to denote a rate change in a financial यंत्र, or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates, including the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying security, they will often be quoted as a स्प्रेड over ( or under ) the index.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum ऊपर the लंदन interbank offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis points over LIBOR, which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
The term `` आधार पाइंट '' रै इसके origins in trading the `` basis '' or the spread between two interest rates.
Since the basis is प्रायः छोटी, ये हैं कोटेड multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point.
Contrast साथ pips in FX forward markets.
The relationship between percentage changes and basis points can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage point change = 100 basis points, and 0.01 percentage points = 1 आधार पाइंट.
So, a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 basis points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The अंग्रेजों royal परिवार is the group of close relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly लागू to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of any of the other Commonwealth realms, thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by birth or marriage, the House of विंडसर, चूंकि 1917, जब जार्ज v बदला the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany and given the British Royal Family 's strong German ancestry ; it was felt that its public image could be improved by choosing a more अंग्रेजों हाउस नाम.
The new name chosen, Windsor, had absolutely no connection other than as the name of the castle which was and continues to be a royal निवास.
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family, and different lists will include different people, those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ), or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members, which usually results in the application of the term to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the widowed consorts of previous monarchs, the children of the monarch and previous monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line पोते.
On 30 November 1917, King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are members of the Royal परिवार ; the टेक्स्ट of the सूचना from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty the महारानी परिवर्धित these Letters Patent, as was evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a शीर्षक और a स्टाइल borne by members of the Royal Family to additional persons to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, sometimes for extended periods as viceroys, or for specific ceremonies or events.
Today, they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom.
Aside from the monarch, their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve, if eligible and when appointed by letters patent, as a Counsellor of State, two or more of whom कसरत the प्राधिकार of the क्राउन ( within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch.
In the other realms of the Commonwealth royalty do not serve as counsellors of State.
However in each such realm the monarch 's family members may act on behalf of, are funded by, and represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
The Queen, her consort, her children and grandchildren, as well as all former sovereigns ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first भाग of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' पूर्वता, और पतियों of princesses are unofficially but habitually placed with their wives as well.
However, the Queen changed the private order of पूर्वता in the royal परिवार in पक्ष of राजकुमारियों Anne and Alexandra, who henceforth take private precedence over the Duchess of Cornwall, who is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself.
She did not alter the सापेक्ष पूर्वता of अन्य born-princesses, such as the daughters of her younger sons.
हैती ( ; haitian Creole Ayiti ), officially the Republic of Haiti ( ; ), is a Caribbean country.
It occupies the पश्चिमी, छोटी portion of the island of Hispaniola, in the Greater Antillean archipelago, which it shares with the Dominican Republic.
Ayiti ( land of high mountains ) was the स्वदेशी Taíno or Amerindian name for the island.
The country 's highest point is pic la Selle, at.
The total area of Haiti is and its capital is port-au-prince.
Haitian Creole and French हैं the official languages.
Haiti 's regional, historical, and ethno-linguistic स्थिति is unique for several reasons.
It was the first independent nation of लैटिन अमेरिका और the caribbean, the पहला ब्लैक -led गणतंत्र in the world, and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade.
In 2012, Haiti announced its intention to तलाश संबद्ध membership status in the African Union.
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly francophone स्वतंत्र nations in the Americas.
It is one of only two independent nations in the americas ( साथ साथ Canada ) to designate French as an official language ; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the most populous पूरा member-state of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest country in the Americas as measured by the इंसान Development Index.
Political violence has occurred regularly throughout its history, leading to government instability.
Most recently, in February 2004, a coup d'état originating in the उत्तर of the देश मजबूर the इस्तीफा and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A provisional government took control with security provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in हैती ( minustah ).
Michel Martelly, the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, was elected in the Haitian general election, 2011.
The द्वीप रै था a history of destructive earthquakes.
A 7.0 magnitude भूकंप struck हैती on 12 January 2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince.
The highest reliable मौत गिनती was estimated at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates were उच्चतर.
The Presidential palace, Parliament and अनेक अन्य महत्वपूर्ण structures were destroyed, along with countless homes and businesses, leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless.
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of the damage Haiti endured in 2010, as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake.
संयुक्त राज्य aid organizations have donated $ 2 billion.
Combined with अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय दान, these funds are intended to contribute to the rebuilding of the country.
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo, the Italian electro house and dance-punk music निर्माता, DJ and photographer.
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known for the black Venom mask he wears during performances.
In fact, the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across his chest, which is both the साल कि the निर्माता and punk-rock was born.
`` The खूनी Beetroots DJ set '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and Tommy Tea.
A Motorola सलाहकार alphanumeric pager used in Brazil in the 1990s, operated by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives and displays numeric or टेक्स्ट संदेश, or receives और announces आवाज़ संदेश.
One-way pagers can only receive messages, while response pagers and two-way pagers can also acknowledge, जवाब to, और originate संदेश using an internal transmitter.
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or more fixed transmitters ( or in the मामला of जवाब pagers और two-way pagers, एक or more base stations ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range from a restaurant system with a single low-power transmitter, to a देशभर प्रणाली साथ thousands of high-power base stations.
One of the first practical paging services was शुभारम्भ in 1950 लिये physicians in the नई York City area.
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर कि होता प्राप्त फोन संदेश भीतर ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The system was manufactured by the Reevesound Company and operated by telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis Mitchell combined elements of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager, और इससे इस पाइंट, paging प्रौद्योगिकी जारी to advance, and pager adoption continued to expand, until the early 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as सेल्यूलर technologies became cheaper and more widely available, advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche products, finding preferential use in applications such as hospitals, public safety, and retail locations where their सादगी, ऊँची reliability, and low cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a town in Dorchester County, South Carolina, संयुक्त राज्य.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 196 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes only, Reevesville is included within the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville महानगर area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6, 1907 – July 13, 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार, born in Coyoacán, who is best known for her self-portraits.
Kahlo 's जीवन began और ended in Mexico City, in her home known as the Blue House.
She gave her birth date as July 7, 1910, but her birth certificate shows जुलाई 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her birth to coincide with the year of the beginning of the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति so that her life would begin with the birth of modern Mexico.
Her कार्य रै महरूम मनाये in Mexico as emblematic of national and indigenous tradition, and by feminists for its uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form.
Mexican culture and Amerindian cultural tradition are important in उसके कार्य, जिससे रै महरूम sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art.
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 André Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist गति, वर्णित kahlo 's आर्ट as a `` रिबन around a bomb ''.
Kahlo had a volatile marriage with the प्रसिद्ध Mexican artist Diego Rivera.
She suffered lifelong स्वास्थ्य problems.
Many of her health problems यहूद the परिणाम of a traffic accident she survived as a teenager.
recovering इससे उसके चोटों isolated her from other people and this isolation influenced her works, many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another.
Kahlo सुझाया, `` i पेंट खुद because I am so often alone and because I am the subject I know best. ''
She also stated, `` I थी born a bitch.
I was born a painter. ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the day before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in Munich, Bavaria, Germany, running from late September to the first weekend in October.
It is one of the most famous कार्यक्रम in जर्मनी and is the world 's largest fair, with more than 6 million people from around the world attending the event every year.
To the locals, it is not called Oktoberfest, but `` die Wiesn '', after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves.
The Oktoberfest is an important part of Bavarian culture, having महरूम आयोजित since 1810.
Other cities across the world also थाम oktoberfest जश्न, modeled after the original Munich event.
the म्यूनिख Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen days up to, and including, the first Sunday in October.
In 1994, the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd, तब the पर्व would go on until October 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the festival is now 17 days when the first Sunday is October 2 and 18 days when it is October 1.
In 2010, the festival lasted जबतक the first Monday in October, to mark the anniversary of the event.
The festival is held in an area named the theresienwiese ( फ़ील्ड, or मर्ग, of Therese ), often called Wiesn for short, located near Munich 's center.
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are consumed, with almost 7 million liters served दौरान the 16 दिन festival in 2007.
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ), Schweinebraten ( roast pork ), Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ), Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ), Würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ), Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings ), Käsespätzle ( चीज नूडल्स ), reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ), Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter with cheese and garnishes
पहियों of Gouda
Cheese is a जेनेरिक पद लिये a विविध group of milk-based food products.
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging जायका, बनावट, and forms.
Cheese consists of प्रोटीन और fat from milk, usually the milk of cows, buffalo, goats, or sheep.
It is produced by coagulation of the मिल्क प्रोटीन casein.
Typically, the milk is acidified और जोड of the enzyme rennet causes coagulation.
The solids are separated and pressed into final form.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at cooking तापमान.
Hundreds of types of cheese from विभिन्न देशों are produced.
Their styles, textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the एनिमल 's आहार ), whether वे have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat content, the bacteria and mold, the processing, and aging.
Herbs, spices, or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents.
the पीला to रेड रंग of many cheeses, such as Red Leicester, is normally formed from adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids ऐसे as सिरका or lemon juice.
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria, which turn milk sugars into lactic acid, तब the जोड of rennet completes the curdling.
शाकाहारी विकल्प to rennet हैं उपलब्धियाँ ; most are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei, but others have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued for its portability, long life, and high content of fat, protein, calcium, and phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk, although how long a cheese will keep may depend on the type of चीज ; लेबल्स on पैकेट्स of चीज प्रायः अर्जी that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening.
Generally speaking, hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses, such as Brie or बकरी 's milk cheese.
cheesemakers निकट a दुग्ध region may benefit from fresher, lower-priced milk, and lower shipping costs.
The long storage life of कुछ चीज, especially if it is encased in a protective rind, allows selling when markets are favorable.
Additional संघटक may be added to कुछ cheeses, such as black peppers, garlic, chives or cranberries.
A specialist seller of चीज is sometimes known as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in this field, like wine or cooking, requires कुछ formal education and years of tasting and hands-on experience.
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheese menu, purchasing, receiving, भंडार, and ripening.
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or उपयोगिता of a particular सन्दर्भ जब the सन्दर्भ itself does not provide adequate information.
Most citation signals are placed in front of the citation to which वे लागू.
For example, in the paragraph When writing a legal argument, it is महत्वपूर्ण to refer to primary sources.
To assist readers in locating these स्त्रोत, it is desirable to use a standardized citation format.
See generally Harvard Law Review Association, The bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some courts may require any legal papers that are सुपुर्द to उन्हें to conform to a different citation format.
the सिग्नल is the phrase `` देखिए generally, '' जिससे indicates कि the citation `` the bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides सामान्य पृष्ठभूमि सूचना on the topic.
Neil Alden Armstrong ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to walk on the Moon.
He was also an aerospace engineer, naval aviator, परीक्षण पायलट, and university professor.
Before becoming an astronaut, आर्मस्ट्रांग was an officer in the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War.
After the war, he earned his bachelor 's उपाधि at purdue विश्वविद्यालयों और परोसा as a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station, now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center, where he logged over 900 flights.
He later completed graduate studies at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Southern California.
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight programs, आर्मस्ट्रांग joined the नासा Astronaut Corps in 1962.
He made his पहला स्पेस उड़ान, as कमांड pilot of Gemini 8, in 1966, becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On this mission, he performed the first डॉकिंग of दो spacecraft, with pilot David Scott.
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight was as mission commander of the अपोलो 11 moon landing, in July 1969.
On this mission, आर्मस्ट्रांग and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface and spent two and a half hours exploring, while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module.
Along with Collins and Aldrin, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978, President Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio, on August 25, 2012, at the age of 82, after complications from coronary artery bypass surgery.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), और the belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is considered to be one of the greatest thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked सचिवालय the 35th best athlete of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by Bold शासक आउट of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at The मर्ग in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War, Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given the same उपनाम, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by कनाडाई jockey Ron Turcotte, along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered रंगों और उसके दूल्हे थी एडी स्वेद.
Secretariat stood लगभग लम्बा, और weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the capital and largest city of स्पेन.
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the मैड्रिड महानगर क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5 million.
It is the third-largest city in the European Union, after London and Berlin, and its metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris.
The city spans a कुल of.
The city is स्तिथ on the manzanares नदी in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the city of Madrid, its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital city of Spain, सीट of सरकारी, और निवास of the स्पेनी monarch, Madrid is also the political, economic and cultural centre of Spain.
The current mayor is Ana Botella from the लोगों 's पार्टी ( PP ).
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its प्रभाव in राजनीती, शिक्षा, entertainment, पर्यावरण, मीडिया, fashion, science, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities.
Due to its economic output, high standard of living, और मार्केट आकार, Madrid is considered the major financial centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the continent, and the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable नगर in the world according to Monocle magazine, in its 2010 index.
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > मैड्रिड is फिलहाल a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ), belonging to the United राष्ट्र संगठन ( un ), the segib, the संगठन of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the खड़ा कमेटी of the Association of Spanish Language Academies, headquarters of the Royal Spanish Academy ( RAE ), the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes fairs as FITUR, ARCO, SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid फ़ैशन सप्ताह.
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure, it has preserved the look और महसूस of अनेक of इसके ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods and streets.
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park, founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing some of Spain 's historical archives ; a large number of National museums, and the Golden Triangle of Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum, the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, a museum of modern art, and the thyssen-bornemisza Museum, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
cibeles राजमहल and Fountain have become the monument symbol of the city.
The path of the via appia and of the Via Appia Traiana.
Remains of the appian रास्ता in Rome, near Quarto Miglio
Near रोम.
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) was one of the earliest और रणनीतिक most important Roman roads of the ancient republic.
it कनेक्ट Rome to Brindisi, Apulia, in southeast Italy.
Its importance is indicated by its common नाम, अंकित by Statius :
Appia teritur रेजिना longarum viarum
`` the Appian way is the queen of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a सैन्य सड़क to the दक्षिण in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars.
The Draupner wave, a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995, finally confirmed the existence of freak waves, which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves, monster waves, killer waves, extreme waves, and असामान्य लहरें ) हैं अपेक्षाकृत large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far out at sea, and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, they are more precisely defined as waves whose height is more than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ), जिससे is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record.
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest लहरें मिला at sea ; they are, rather, surprisingly large waves for a given sea state.
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause, but occur where physical factors such as high winds and strong currents cause waves to विलय to बनाएँ a सिंगल exceptional विशाल wave.
Electress Sophia of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible to succeed to the सिंहासन of the United Kingdom and the other 15 Commonwealth realms.
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the Electress Sophia of Hanover and her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics.
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to succeed, but the work of genealogical authors and amateur researchers suggests कि वहीँ हैं अनेक हजार लोगों potentially in line.
At a summit in पर्थ, पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture, end the exclusion of people married to Roman Catholics, and make other changes in the succession rules.
The line of succession is also used to select the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) under the प्रावधानों of the Regency Act 1937.
For earlier versions of the line of succession, see History of the British line of उत्तराधिकार.
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17, 1920july 23, 1966 ) थी an अमरीकी film and stage actor The New York Times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody, sensitive young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun, the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock 's I Confess, the doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity, and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in एडवर्ड Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car crash in 1956, and alcohol and prescription drug abuse, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were still his, including `` the reckless, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo यजमान '' in जॉन हस्टन 's the misfits, the title role in Huston 's, and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift प्राप्त four Academy Award nominations during his career, three for Best Actor and one for Best Supporting Actor.
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied to an international military campaign which started as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist हमले on the United States.
This resulted in an international military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other militant संगठन.
the संयुक्त किंगडम and many other NATO and non-NATO nations participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was first used by US अध्यक्ष George W. Bush on 20 September 2001.
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to signify a global military, political, lawful, and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as आतंकवादी and regimes accused of supporting them.
It was typically used with a particular focus on militant Islamists, al-Qaeda, और अन्य जिहादी groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ), it is still commonly used by politicians, in the media and by some aspects of government officially, ऐसे as the संयुक्त States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship schleswig-holstein, Westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer uss शॉ exploding after her forward magazine was detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic issues, unresolved issues, and resentments resulting from World War I and the interwar काल in Europe, in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s.
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally understood to be the 1939 invasion of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the गणतंत्र of चीन by the साम्राज्य of Japan.
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the authoritarian ruling Nazi elite in Germany and by the leadership of the kwantung फौज in Japan.
World युद्ध ii प्रारंभ बाद ये आक्रामक actions were met with an official declaration of war and/or armed resistance.
The following is a list of देवताओं and other divine and semi-divine figures from Greek mythology.
The list does not include creatures ; for ये, see List of Greek mythological creatures.
The मित्सुबिशी Galant is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 and 2012.
The name was derived from the फ्रेंच शब्द galant, अर्थ `` chivalrous ''.
There have been nine पृथक पीढियां, and cumulative sales now exceed five million.
It began as a compact sedan, but over the कोर्स of इसके जीवन has evolved into a larger mid-size car.
Initial production थी तभी आधारित in जापानी, लकिन चूंकि 1994 the अमरीकी market has been served by vehicles assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial blood दबाव, is the दबाव exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When प्रयुक्त बगैर further specification, `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation.
During each heartbeat, blood pressure varies between a maximum ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) दबाव.
The blood pressure in the circulation is प्रधानतया due to the pumping action of the heart.
Differences in mean blood pressure are responsible for blood flow from one location to another in the परिसंचरण.
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the resistance to flow प्रस्तुत by the blood vessels.
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating blood moves away from the heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous losses of energy.
औसत रक्त दबाव बूंदें over the whole circulation, although most of the fall occurs along the small arteries and arterioles.
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., during standing ) and valves in veins, breathing, and pumping from संकुचन of skeletal मांसपेशियां also influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा और is a माप of the दबाव in the brachial artery, the major artery in the upper arm.
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic pressure over diastolic दबाव and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ), for example 120/80.
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an officer of the state, for example ) to unilaterally stop an आधिकारिक कार्रवाई, विशेषकर the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as लिये उदाहरण in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद, whose permanent members ( China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United States of America ) can block any resolution.
Or it can be limited, as in the legislative process of the United States, जहाँ a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation.
A वीटो तभी gives power to stop changes, not to adopt them ( except for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ).
Thus a वीटो allows its holder to protect the status quo.
The अवधारणा of a veto body originated with the Roman consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could block a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the other ; any tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
Sulfur डाइऑक्साइड ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the chemical compound with the formula.
It is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating smell, that is released by ज्वालामुखी और in विभिन्न industrial processes.
Since coal और पेट्रोलियम often contain sulfur compounds, their combustion generates sulfur dioxide unless the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the उपस्थिति of a catalyst such as NO2, forms H2SO4, and thus acid rain.
Sulfur dioxide emissions are also a precursor to particulates in the माहौल.
Both of these impacts are cause for चिंता over the environmental impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` मांसपेशी '', `` कमज़ोरी '', और `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an autoimmune disorder, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन, inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically साथ acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in selected cases, thymectomy.
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per लाख प्रति साल और rising as a result of increased awareness.
MG must be distinguished from congenital myasthenic syndromes that can present similar symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive उपचार.
परावर्तक मुड़ nematic liquid crystal display.
Polarizing filter film with a लंबवत axis to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate with ito electrodes.
The shapes of these electrodes will determine the shapes that will appear when the LCD is turned ON.
लंबवत ridges etched on the surface are smooth.
Twisted nematic द्रव क्रिस्टल.
Glass substrate with common electrode film ( ito ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the horizontal filter.
Polarizing filter film साथ a horizontal axis to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to send light back to viewer.
( In a backlit LCD, this परत is replaced with a light source. )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel display, electronic visual display, or video display कि uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do not emit लाइट directly.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा, ऐसे as preset words, digits, and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock.
They use the same basic technology, except that arbitrary images are made up of a विशाल क्रमांक of small pixels, while other displays have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications including computer monitors, televisions, instrument panels, वायुयान कॉकपिट प्रदर्शक, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as video players, gaming devices, clocks, watches, calculators, and telephones, and have replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब ( CRT ) displays in most applications.
They are उपलब्धियाँ in a wider दायरा of screen sizes than CRT and plasma displays, and since they do not use phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
lcds हैं, however, susceptible to image persistence.
The LCD screen is more energy efficient and can be disposed of अधिक सकुशल than a CRT.
Its low electrical शक्ति खपत enables it to be used in battery -powered electronic equipment.
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of segments filled with द्रव crystals और arrayed in front of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
द्रव crystals were first discovered in 1888.
By 2008, worldwide sales of televisions with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the CRT became obsolete for most purposes.
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a luxury hotel, casino, and spa in Atlantic नगर, नई जर्सी, United States.
It is owned by Marina District Development, a joint venture between boyd गेमिंग और a divesture trust established by MGM Resorts International.
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms and is the largest होटल in नई Jersey.
The Borgata खोली in जुलाई 2003 as a लास Vegas-style megaresort and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
a बोतल of ऊँची potency B-complex vitamin supplement pills.
A vitamin ( or ) is an organic compound required by an organism as a vital nutrient in सीमित amounts.
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from the diet.
Thus, the term is conditional both on the circumstances and on the particular सजीव.
For example, ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans, but not लिये सबसे अन्य पशु, और biotin and vitamin D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
By convention, the term vitamin includes neither अन्य अनिवार्य nutrients, ऐसे as dietary खनिज, अनिवार्य वसीय acids, or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger amounts than विटामिन ) nor the विशाल क्रमांक of अन्य nutrients कि प्रचार स्वास्थ्य लकिन हैं वरना जरूरी कम प्रायः.
Thirteen vitamins हैं universally recognized at present.
Vitamins are classified by their biological and chemical कार्यकलाप, नहीं their structure.
Thus, each `` vitamin '' refers to a number of vitamer compounds that all show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin.
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` जेनेरिक वर्णनकर्ता '' शीर्षक, such as `` vitamin A ``, which includes the compounds retinal, retinol, and four known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the vitamin in the body, and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
Vitamins have विविध biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism ( such as vitamin D ), or regulators of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ).
अन्य फलन as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin E and sometimes vitamin C ).
the largest क्रमांक of विटामिन ( ऐसे as b जटिल विटामिन ) function as precursors for enzyme cofactors, that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism.
In this role, vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic groups : For example, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
विटामिन may भी be कम tightly बंधी to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable molecules that function to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules.
For उदाहरण, फोलिक एसिड may carry मिथाइल, formyl, और methylene समूह in the कोशिका.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins ' best-known function, the other vitamin functions are equally important.
Until the mid-1930s, when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold, vitamins were obtained solely through food intake, और परिवर्तन in आहार ( जिससे, लिये उदाहरण, could occur दौरान a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
However, vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary और खाना supplements and additives, since the middle of the 20th century.
World Muslim जनसांख्यिकी by percentage ( Pew Research Center, 2009 )
संसार Muslim population in millions
Islam is the world 's second largest religion after Christianity.
According to a 2010 study, Islam has 1.62 billion adherents, making up over 23 % of the world population.
Islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East, in Sahel, in the Horn of Africa and northern Africa, and in some parts of Asia.
Large communities of Muslims हैं भी मिला in China, the Balkans, and Russia.
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe, for instance, Islam is the दूसरी largest religion after Christianity, where it represents 6 % of the total population.
according to the Pew Research Center in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries.
around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in South and Southeast Asia, with over 1 billion adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the world 's Muslims, followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of मुसलमान live in Arab countries.
In the Middle East, the non-Arab countries of Turkey and Iran are the largest Muslim-majority countries ; in Africa, मिश्र and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities.
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 and released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion मुसलमान around the संसार.
The study found more Muslims in the United Kingdom than in लेबनान और अधिक in चीन than in Syria.
Rhode द्वीप ( or ), officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, is a state in the New England region of the United States.
Rhode Island is the smallest in क्षेत्रफल, the आठवीं least populous, but the second most densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey.
Rhode Island is bordered by कनेक्टिकट to the वेस्ट and Massachusetts to the north and east, and it shares a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest.
Rhode Island was the first of the 13 original colonies to declare independence from British rule, declaring itself independent on May 4, 1776, two महीने पहले any other colony.
The State was also the last of the thirteen original colonies to ratify the United States Constitution.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean State '', a reference to the State 's geography, since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that राशि to परिचय 14 % of इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल.
Its land area is, but its total area is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the United Arab Emirates, स्तिथ within the emirate of the same name.
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the पारसी गल्फ on the arabian प्रायद्वीप और is one of the seven emirates that make up the country.
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest जमीन territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi.
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, the national capital, are the only two emirates to have veto power over नाजुक matters of national importance in the country 's legislature.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state and, in some मामले, the UAE as a whole has been described as 'Dubai '.
The earliest mention of Dubai is in 1095 AD, and the earliest recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799.
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of his tribe of the Bani Yas, living in what was then the Second Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia, to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent United Arab Emirates upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate.
Its strategic geographic location made the कस्बा an महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार हब and by the beginning of the 20th century, Dubai was already an important regional port.
Today, Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city and a business and cultural hub of the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's economy थी historically built on the oil industry, the emirate 's Western-style model of business drives its economy with the main revenues now coming from tourism, real estate, and financial services.
Dubai has recently attracted world ध्यान through many innovative large construction projects and sports events.
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings, such as the world 's tallest Burj Khalifa, in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands, hotels, and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world.
This increased attention has also highlighted labor and human rights मुद्दे concerning the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce.
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
However, दुबई रै बना a steady and gradual recovery with help coming from neighboring emirates.
The handful of new projects that are in the pipeline have been able to help Dubai real एस्टेट मेक a comeback.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world, and the most expensive city in the Middle East, surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to live in the Middle East, including by US American global consulting firm मर्सर जो रेटेड the नगर as the बेहतरीन प्लेस to live in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a सूची of colleges and universities in the U.S. state of Illinois.
Surface of the Atlantic समंदर बैठक the Earth 's planetary boundary layer and troposphere.
लहरें on an ocean coast.
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to माप शारीरिक oceanography parameters such as ocean currents, ocean winds, sea surface height and sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of classical प्राचीनता ) is a body of saline water that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
In the context of Earth, it refers to one or all of the major divisions of the planet 's World Ocean – they are, in descending order of area, the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, Southern ( Antarctic ), और आर्कटिक महासागर.
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '', but strictly speaking a sea is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by जमीन.
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of open liquid water ).
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline water that is customarily divided into several प्रिंसिपल महासागर और छोटी समंदर, साथ the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In terms of the जलमंडल of the Earth, the ocean contains 97 % of the Earth 's water.
Oceanographers have stated कि आउट of 97 %, only 5 % of the ocean as a whole on Earth has been explored.
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere, the world ocean is integral to all known life, forms part of the carbon cycle, and influences climate and weather पैटर्न.
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion cubic kilometres ( 310 लाख cu mi ) with an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species, although much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine species exist.
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown, but oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial oceans may be composed of a चौड़ी range of elements and compounds.
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of Titan, although there is evidence for the अस्तित्व of महासागर elsewhere in the Solar System.
Early in their geologic histories, मंगल और शुक्र are theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the सतह of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल, हालांकि the water on Mars is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as लवण और अमोनिया dissolved in water lower its freezing point, so that water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf planets and natural satellites ; notably, the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth.
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess liquid atmospheric layers of yet to be confirmed रचनाएं.
महासागर may भी मौजूद on exoplanets and exomoons, including surface oceans of liquid water within a circumstellar habitable zone.
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of planet with a सतह completely covered with liquid.
Elvis आरोन प्रेस्ली ( जनवरी 8, 1935 – August 16, 1977 ) was an American singer and actor.
A cultural icon, he is commonly ज्ञात by the single name Elvis.
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th century, he is often referred to as the `` किंग of चट्टान and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley moved to मेम्फिस, टेनेसी, साथ his family at the age of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips, who wanted to bring the sound of African-American music to a wider दर्शक.
accompanied by guitarist स्कॉटी मूर and bassist Bill Black, Presley was the most important popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker, who went on to मैनेज the सिंगर लिये over two decades.
Presley 's first RCA single, `` heartbreak होटल ``, released in January 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and roll with a श्रेणी of संजाल टेलीविज़न दिखावे and chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of songs, अनेक इससे african-american sources, and his uninhibited performance style made him enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he made his film debut in प्रेम Me Tender.
Drafted into military सेवा in 1958, Presley relaunched his recording career two years later with some of his most commercially successful work.
He staged few concerts however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and साउंडट्रैक एल्बम, सबसे of उन्हें critically derided.
In 1968, after seven years away from the stage, he returned to live performance in a celebrated comeback television special that led to an extended Las Vegas कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी और a स्ट्रिंग of profitable tours.
In 1973 Presley staged the first concert broadcast globally via satellite, Aloha from Hawaii.
Prescription drug abuse severely deteriorated his health, and he died एकाएक in 1977 at the age of 42.
Presley is regarded as one of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture.
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide success encompassing many genres, including देश, पॉप ballads, gospel, and blues.
He is the best-selling solo artist in the इतिहास of popular music.
Nominated for 14 competitive Grammys, he won three, and received the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि Award at age 36.
He has been inducted into multiple music halls of fame.
a कांच of root beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally made using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras पेड़ ) as the प्राथमिक flavor.
Root beer, popularized in North America, comes in दो फ़ॉर्म : alcoholic और soft drink.
The historical root beer was analogous to small beer in that the process provided a पेय साथ a बहुत कम दारू content.
Although roots are used as the source of many soft drinks throughout the world, प्रायः अलग names are used.
Fluorescent minerals emit visible लाइट जब उजागर to ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the emission of light by a substance that has absorbed light or अन्य इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण.
It is a form of संदीप्ति.
In most cases, the emitted light has a longer wavelength, and therefore lower energy, than the absorbed radiation.
However, when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense, it is possible for one electron to absorb two photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the अवशोषित radiation.
The emitted radiation may also be of the same wavelength as the absorbed विकिरण, termed `` अनुनाद प्रतिदीप्ति ''.
The most striking उदाहरण of fluorescence occur when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum, and thus invisible to the human eye, and the emitted light is in the visible region.
Fluorescence has many practical applications, including mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( fluorescence spectroscopy ), fluorescent labelling, dyes, biological detectors, and, most commonly, fluorescent lamps.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the principles of logic और लॉजिकल विचार बाहर of a औपचारिक setting.
However, perhaps क्युकी of the अनौपचारिक in the title, the precise definition of informal logic is a matter of some dispute.
Ralph H. Johnson and J. एंथोनी ब्लेयर define अनौपचारिक लॉजिक as `` a शाखा of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards, criteria, procedures for the analysis, interpretation, evaluation, criticism and construction of argumentation. ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in their practice and what others यहूद doing in their informal logic texts.
अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is संबद्ध साथ ( अनौपचारिक ) fallacies, critical thinking, the Thinking Skills Movement and the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal logic '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
बेरोजगारी रेट in the us 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression began in August of 1929, when the United States economy first went into an economic recession.
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP, it was not until the वॉल गली क्रैश of अक्तूबर, 1929 that the effects of a declining economy were felt, and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment, poverty, low profits, deflation, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities for आर्थिक growth and personal advancement.
Although its causes are still uncertain and controversial, the net effect was a sudden and general loss of विश्वास in the economic future.
The usual explanations include numerous factors, especially high consumer debt, ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors, and the lack of high-growth new industries, all interacting to create a downward आर्थिक सर्पिल of reduced spending, falling confidence, and lowered production.
Industries that suffered the most included construction, agriculture as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, शिपिंग, खनन, और लॉगिंग as खूब as टिकाऊ goods जैसे ऑटोमोबाइल और उपकरण कि could be postponed.
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33 ; then came four years of very rapid growth until 1937, जब the मंदी of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment.
The Depression caused major राजनैतिक परिवर्तन in America.
Three years into the depression, Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 presidential election to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan, the New Deal, instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम लिये राहत, रिकवरी and reform, and brought about a major realignment of American politics.
The अवसाद भी resulted in an increase of emigration of people to other countries for the first time in American history.
For example, some immigrants went back to their native countries, and some native US citizens went to Canada, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और दक्षिण Africa.
It also resulted in the द्रव्यमान माइग्रेशन of लोगों from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and the South to places such as California and the North, respectively ( see Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ).
Racial तनाव भी increased during this time.
By the 1940s immigration had returned back to normal, और करणों declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt, who went to आयरलैंड, as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes.
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics and resulted in many changes in how the government dealt with economic downturns, such as the use of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped modern American literature, resulting in famous novels such as John Steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` और `` of चूहे और मेन ``.
The ग्रेट अवसाद of the 1930s started with the stock market crash of October 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the गणतंत्र of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, located mostly on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; यूनानियों to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया to the northeast ; Armenia, Iran and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the ईजियन समुद्र is to the वेस्ट ; and the Black Sea is to the north.
The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace और Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia.
Turkey 's location at the crossroads of Europe and Asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic महत्व.
The country 's official language is Turkish, a Turkic language, जिससे is बोला by लगभग 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The most numerous जातीय समूह is the turks, who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook.
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and, according to the same source, number around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी जबकि अन्य जातीय minorities are estimated to be at 7–12 %.
The विशाल majority of the population is Muslim.
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited since the Paleolithic, including various Ancient Anatolian civilizations and Thracian peoples.
After Alexander the Great 's conquest, the area was Hellenized, which continued with the Roman नियम और the परिवर्तन into the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the process of Turkification, which was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk विजय over the byzantines at the बैटल of manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243, upon जिससे it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th century, the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and created an empire encompassing much of Southeastern Europe, Western Asia and North Africa.
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its defeat in संसार युद्ध i, भाग of it यहूद occupied by the victorious Allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues, organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they स्थापित the आधुनिक Republic of Turkey, with Atatürk as its first president.
Turkey is a democratic, धर्मनिरपेक्ष, एकात्मक, constitutional republic with a diverse cultural heritage.
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through membership in organisations such as the Council of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the European Union in 2005, having been an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close cultural, political and economic relations with the Middle East, Caucasus, the Turkic states of Central एशिया और the अफ़्रीकी देशों through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the turkic Council, Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing अर्थव्यवस्था और राजनयिक initiatives have led to its recognition as a regional power.
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP and the 16th largest by purchasing power parity.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, राजनैतिक activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, वो निभाई oda mae Brown, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for गए With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, The Player, Made in America, How Stella Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards for उसके कार्य in टेलीविज़न.
She was co-producer of the popular खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड Squares from 1998 to 2004.
वो रै महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन बात दिखाएँ the दृश्य चूंकि 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, दो दिन Emmys, two Golden Globes, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों Academy Film Award, four People 's Choice Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
Augusta is a संचित नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया, स्तिथ at the fall line of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion.
as of the 2010 census, the Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844 not counting the unconsolidated cities of Hephzibah and Blythe.
Augusta is the principal नगर of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest city in the United States.
Internationally, Augusta is best known for hosting The Masters Tournament in गोल्फ़ प्रत्येक spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc which contains data.
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory ``.
Computers can पढ़ा CD-ROMs, but can not write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software, including video games and multimedia applications, हालांकि कोई data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player, while data ( such as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the स्वरूप of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats, the Yellow Book, created by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to थाम any form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986, and known colloquially as the Hawks ) हैं a पेशेवर ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois.
They are members of the Central Division of the Western Conference of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
They have won four Stanley Cup championships since their founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams, along with the Detroit Red Wings, मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the Blackhawks have played their home games at the United Center बाद having खर्च 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium.
Lent celebrants carrying out a street बारात दौरान पावन Week.
The violet color is often associated with penance और detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in अन्य कैथोलिक देशों, sometimes associated with mortification of the flesh.
Granada, निकारागुआ.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations, lasting for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday.
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken to run from Ash Wednesday to Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve.
In the Catholic Church, Lent lasts until Holy Thursday, जबकि अन्य denominations run until Easter Eve.
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the आस्तिक through prayer, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of Holy Week, marking the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus, which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on Good Friday, which then culminates in the जश्न on ईस्टर Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the faithful commit to उपवास or giving up निश्चित types of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The Stations of the Cross, a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's carrying the Cross and of his execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant चर्च हटाएँ पुष्प इससे उनके altars, जबकि crucifixes, religious statues, and other elaborate religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, some adherents चिह्नित the ऋतु साथ the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat.
In some countries, grand religious processions and cultural customs are observed, and the faithful attempt to विज़िट सात चर्च दौरान Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally described as स्थायी लिये चालीस दिनों, in commemoration of the forty days which, according to the Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
However, different Christian denominations calculate the चालीस दिनों of Lent differently.
In most Western traditions the Sundays are नहीं गिने as भाग of lent ; thus the period from Ash Wednesday until Easter consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded.
However in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now taken to end on Holy Thursday rather than Easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 दिनों excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, साथ with its pious customs are observed by Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians, and Anglicans.
स्थान of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released विशाल quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere, which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
In grammar, a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking verb ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the former case, a renaming noun phrase ऐसे as a noun or pronoun is called a predicative nominal.
An adjective following the copula and describing the विषय is called a predicative adjective.
In either case the predicative पूरक in प्रभाव mirrors the subject.
Subject complements are used साथ a small class of verbs called linking verbs or copula, of which be is the most common.
Since copula are stative क्रियाएँ, विषय complements हैं नहीं affected by any action of the verb.
Subject complements हैं typically not clause arguments, nor are they clause adjuncts.
throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, many significant records have been set.
इस पेज तभी शामिल the competitive awards won by various artists.
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production फ़ील्ड ) कि may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), better known by his stage name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by his alter ego Slim Shady, is an American rapper, रिकार्ड निर्माता, songwriter and actor.
Eminem, along with his solo career, is a member of his group D12, and also one half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling artists in the world and is the best-selling कलाकार of the 2000s.
He has been listed and ranked as one of the greatest artists of all time by many magazines, including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
The same पत्रिका घोषित him The King of Hip Hop.
Including उसके कार्य साथ d12 और Bad Meets Evil, Eminem has achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
He has sold more than 100 million रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, सहित 42 million tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States.
As an underground rapper Eminem released his debut सोलो एल्बम, अनन्त in 1996.
The album was a नाजुक और commercial failure.
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of उसके major-label debut album The Slim Shady LP.
the lp भी अर्जित Eminem his first Grammy Award for Best Rap Album.
His next दो रिकॉर्ड The Marshall Mathers LP, and The Eminem Show, also won Best Rap Album Grammy Awards, making Eminem the first artist to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs.
इस was followed by another studio release in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem then went on अंतराल after touring in 2005.
He released his first album in five years titled Relapse, on May 15, 2009.
In 2010, Eminem released his seventh studio album Recovery.
Recovery was an international success and was named the best selling album of 2010 विश्वव्यापी, joining the Eminem Show, which was the best seller of 2002.
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery, giving him a total of 13 Grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened अन्य ventures, including his own record label Shady Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg.
He also has his own radio channel, Shade 45 on sirius xm Radio.
Eminem began an acting career in 2002, when he starred in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile.
He won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन असली सोंग, बनने the पहला रैप कलाकार कभी to जीत the पुरस्कार.
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ), Funny People ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage.
The acre is a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an अमरीकी football field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable exceptions include the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to some extent, in कनाडा.
The international प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, and is defined as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly used acre today is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़.
In the संयुक्त राज्य both the international acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use.
The most common use of the acre is to माप tracts of land.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre थी the राशि of जमीन that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass led to many new findings in the 19th century.
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions और जॉन डाल्टन 's परमाणु theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that combustion involved oxygen rather than what was previously thought to be phlogiston.
The law of conservation of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of which have mass ), the mass of the system must remain constant over time, as system mass can not change quantity if it is not added or removed.
Hence, the quantity of mass is `` conserved '' over समय.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed, although it may be rearranged in space, or the entities associated with it may be changed in form, as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction, nuclear reaction, or radioactive decay in an isolated system, the mass of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products.
The concept of mass conservation is widely used in many fields such as chemistry, mechanics, and fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass conservation was discovered in chemical reactions by Antoine Lavoisier in the late 18th century, and was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high सन्निकटन that it failed only for the high energies treated by the later refinements of relativity theory, but otherwise remains useful and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations, even in modern practice.
In special relativity, needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is involved, the अंतर between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important, since conservation of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems, i.e. those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment.
In this circumstance, the mass-energy equivalence theorem states that mass conservation is समतुल्य to total energy conservation, which is the first law of thermodynamics.
By contrast, for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e., one which is closed to exchanges of matter, but open to exchanges of non-material उर्जा, ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य, साथ the परिवेश ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or आउटपुट of non-material उर्जा जरूर बदलें the द्रव्यमान of the system in relativity theory, although the change is usually small, since relatively large amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ).
In special relativity, mass is not converted to energy, since energy in all of its forms always retains its equivalent amount of mass throughout कोई परिवर्तन or translocation into, or out of, a system.
However, certain types of matter ( a different concept ) may be converted to energy, so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process.
However, if ऐसे उर्जा is removed from systems, they must lose the mass that is associated with it.
In general relativity, mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of space is a complex concept, subject to different परिभाषाएं, और neither द्रव्यमान nor energy is as strictly and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space.
For a चर्चा, see mass in general relativity.
A pig is any of the animals in the genus सस, भीतर the suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the domestic pig, its ancestor the wild boar, and several other wild relatives.
Young and small सूअर are known as piglets.
सूअर हैं omnivores and are highly social and intelligent animals.
8-inch, -inch, and -inch floppy disks
8-inch, -inch ( full height ), and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' magnetic material, removed from its housing
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a disk storage medium composed of a disk of thin and flexible magnetic storage मीडियम, sealed in a आयताकार प्लास्टिक carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles.
वे हैं पढ़ा and written by a floppy disk drive ( FDD ).
Floppy disks, initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) आकार, were a ubiquitous form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the first decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be used as an external USB drive, but ``, 8 ``, and non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have कुछ सीमित उपयोग, विशेषकर with legacy industrial computer equipment, they have been superseded by data storage methods with much greater capacity, such as USB flash drives, portable external hard disk drives, optical discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
An एनिमेटेड आरेख of a cutter
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball which breaks slightly toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने पक्ष as it reaches home plate.
This pitch is कही between a slider and a fastball, as it is usually thrown faster than a slider but with more motion than a typical fastball.
Some pitchers use a कटर as a way to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs.
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to use a four-seam fastball पकड़ with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand.
When a batter is able to hit a cutter pitch, it often results in soft contact and an easy out, due to the pitch 's गति keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot.
The cutter is typically 2–5 mph slower than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball.
In 2010, the औसत पिच classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph.
`` What It Takes '' is a power ballad by American hard rock band Aerosmith.
It was written by Steven Tyler, Joe Perry, and डेसमंड Child.
It was released in 1990 as the third single from Aerosmith 's critically and commercially successful 1989 album Pump.
In the video The Making of Pump, A & R man जॉन kalodner वर्णित the song as `` a masterpiece ''.
During live performances, Tyler sings the पहला श्लोक a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus.
The एल्बम संस्करण of the song is followed by an untitled hidden track.
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus, found at the villa of tiberius at sperlonga
विवरण of an ancient Roman mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; यूनानी :, ), भी known by the Roman name Ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey.
Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer 's Iliad and अन्य works in that same Epic Cycle.
Husband of Penelope, father of Telemachus, and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance, guile, and versatility ( polytropos ), and is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning intelligence `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to वापसी घर बाद the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy.
Erie is a Statutory Town in Boulder and Weld counties in the U.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो.
The population according to the 2010 census is 18,135 and was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy access to I-70, Denver International Airport and कोलोराडो 's संपूर्ण सामने Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles, extending from the north side of State Highway 52 south to State Highway 7, and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is लगभग 35 मिनट्स इससे डेनवर International Airport, 25 minutes to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder.
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and governing देह of the कस्बा of erie and is responsible for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the authority to adopt laws, ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the कस्बा, और by अध्यादेश may डालें into contracts or intergovernmental agreements to furnish, receive services or to provide for cooperative service delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the Town Administrator is the chief operating and administrative officer of the Town and is responsible for providing professional नेतृत्व in the प्रशासन और निष्पादन of policies and objectives formulated by the Board.
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the community to maintain a safe environment, prevent crime और enforce the law, while protecting the rights of all.
Erie Municipal विमानक्षेत्र ( eik ) is स्वामित्व and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the Denver-Boulder metropolitan area on Colorado Highway 7, a little over three miles west of Interstate 25.
The main runway is concrete paved and 4,700 फीट long.
The is a home video game console produced by सोनी कंप्यूटर Entertainment.
it is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन 2, as भाग of the प्लेस्टेशन श्रेणी.
The PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 and निन्टेंडो 's वी as भाग of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
it थी पहला released on नवम्बर 11, 2006, in Japan, with international markets following shortly thereafter.
The console was first officially घोषित at E3 2005.
originally नियत लिये a वसन्त 2006 release date, it was delayed several times until finally hitting stores at the end of the year.
It was the first and currently only console to उपयोग blu-ray Disc as its primary storage medium.
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service, the PlayStation Network, and its connectivity with the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita, In September 2009 the updated प्लेस्टेशन 3 पतला, थी released.
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version, although it lacks PlayStation 2 पीछे संगतता ( removed on बाद original models ), but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 million प्लेस्टेशन 3s have been sold worldwide.
Its successor, प्लेस्टेशन 4, is set for a Q4 2013 release.
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11, 1904January 23, 1989 ), known as Salvador Dalí ( ), was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Spain.
dalí थी a skilled draftsman, best known for the striking and bizarre images in his surrealist work.
His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters.
His best-known work, the Persistence of Memory, was completed in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film, sculpture, and photography, in collaboration with a range of artists in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my जुनून लिये लक्ज़री और my प्रेम of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '', claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors.
Dalí was highly imaginative, and also enjoyed indulging in unusual and grandiose behavior.
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes खींचा अधिक ध्यान than his artwork, to the dismay of those who held his work in high esteem, and to the irritation of his critics.
Philosopher Plato by silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture, using methods that are primarily analytical, critical, or speculative, and having a significant historical element, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The humanities include ancient and modern languages, literature, philosophy, religion, and visual and performing कला ऐसे as music and theatre.
The मानवता कि are also regarded as social sciences include history, anthropology, area studies, communication studies, cultural studies, law, economics and linguistics.
Scholars working in the humanities are sometimes वर्णित as `` humanists ''.
However, that term also describes the philosophical position of humanism, which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject.
Some द्वितीयक स्कूलों offer humanities classes, usually consisting of English literature, global studies, and art.
Human disciplines like history, cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis पढ़ाई विषय matters to which the experimental method does not apply, and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research.
The 2005 Blue Room क्रिसमस Tree
The White House Christmas Tree, also known as the Blue Room Christmas Tree, is the official अंदर क्रिसमस पेड़ at the residence of the President of the United States, the White House.
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) and since 1961 the पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग मोटिफ at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the संयुक्त States.
The president leads the executive branch of the federal सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United राज्य in the अध्यक्ष and charges him with the execution of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under असाधारण हालातों.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely जिम्मेदार लिये dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
the अध्यक्ष is अक्सर वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the संयुक्त राज्य.
The Twenty-second Amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president, or acting president, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected और is scheduled to serve until January 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of जीवों that provide data for perception.
The senses and their operation, वर्गीकरण, और सिद्धान्त are overlapping topics studied by a variety of fields, most notably neuroscience, cognitive psychology ( or cognitive science ), and philosophy of perception.
The nervous system has a विशिष्ट संवेदी प्रणाली or अंग, dedicated to each sense.
Humans have a multitude of होश.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), hearing ( audioception ), taste ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ), pain ( nociception ), balance ( equilibrioception ), acceleration ( kinesthesioception ), and various internal stimuli ( e.g. the different chemoreceptors लिये detecting नमक और कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड एकाग्रता in the रक्त ), तभी a छोटी क्रमांक of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some debate, leading to difficulties in defining what exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to sense the world around them, with degrees of capability varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell, जबकि कुछ पशु may lack one or more of the traditional five senses.
Some animals may also intake और interpret संवेदी stimuli in very different ways.
Some species of animals are able to sense the world in a way that humans can not, साथ कुछ प्रजाति समर्थ to भाव विद्युत and magnetic fields, and detect water pressure and currents.
Spiders ( order araneae ) हैं air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति diversity among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica, and have become स्थापित in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider प्रजाति, और 109 परिवारों have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, और joined by a छोटी, बेलनाकार pedicel.
नापसंद कीट, spiders do not have antennae.
In all except the सबसे आदिम group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have महरूम modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in size, shape and the amount of sticky लड़ी प्रयुक्त.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs हैं more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True मकड़ियों have महरूम मिला in Carboniferous rocks from, and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, bagheera kiplingi, थी वर्णित in 2008, लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति are predators, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have अधि दृष्टि, and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
मकड़ियों ' गुस्ताखी हैं too सीमित to लो solids, और वे liquidize उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as वे do नहीं have सच्चा जबड़े.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the महिलाओं.
males of सबसे प्रजाति जीवित a few matings, limited mainly by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care for their young, for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of species are social, building communal webs that may house anywhere इससे a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 सालो in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, वैज्ञानिकों are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, शक्ति और लोच that is superior to that of synthetic materials, and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of उनके चौड़ी दायरा of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Grey 's Anatomy is an American television medical drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company ( एबीसी ), as a mid-season बदलना on March 27, 2005.
The series has aired nine seasons, and focuses on the fictional जीवनदान of surgical interns and residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, who serves as an executive producer, along with Betsy Beers, Mark गॉर्डन, क्रिस्टा vernoff, रोब मकई, चिह्नित Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
The series was created to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind ढलाई technique.
It is primarily filmed in Los एंजिल्स, California.
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( एलेन pompeo ), who originally is accepted into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital.
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ), along with Dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra oh ), dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R. नाईट ), dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens ' departure, the hospital 's विलय साथ रहमत वेस्ट brings in dr. जैक्सन Avery ( Jesse Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ), in the sixth season.
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens, Jr. ), who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ), and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season, and is replaced by dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक स्मिथ ), जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ during the fifth season, and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ), who departs at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ), who leaves the show at the end of the third season, in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama निजी अभ्यास.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also डालें the दिखाएँ in the दूसरी ऋतु, while the latter dies in the premiere of the ninth season.
Meredith 's half-sister, Dr. Lexie Grey ( Chyler Leigh ), appears इससे season three and dies at the end of season eight.
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular status at the beginning of the sixth season.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated नाटक in the key 18–49 demographic.
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the United States, Grey 's Anatomy has been खूब प्राप्त by critics.
Considered an प्रभाव on संस्कृति, the श्रेणी has received numerous awards, and has also been included in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has produced several specials, as खूब as distributed all seasons to DVD, and released a collection of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue earning show, in terms of advertising per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत for a ninth season, which premiered on September 27, 2012.
schizophrenia ( or ) is a दिमागी विकार characterized by a breakdown of thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations, paranoid or bizarre delusions, or disorganized speech and thinking, और it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood, साथ a वैश्विक आजीवन prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is based on observed बर्ताव और the patient 's reported experiences.
Genetics, early environment, neurobiology, and psychological और सोशल प्रक्रियाओं appear to be important contributory factors ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current research is focused on the role of neurobiology, although no single isolated organic कारण has been found.
The many possible combinations of लक्षण have triggered बहस about whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number of discrete syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to split '' ) and phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` mind '' ), schizophrenia does not imply a `` split व्यक्तित्व '', or `` अनेक व्यक्तित्व विकार '' ( जिससे is ज्ञात these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception.
बल्कि, the पद अर्थात् a `` splitting of mental functions '', because of the symptomatic presentation of the illness.
the mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication, which primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
Psychotherapy and vocational and social पुनर्वास हैं also important in treatment.
In more गंभीर cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be necessary, although hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect cognition, लकिन it भी प्रायः contributes to chronic problems with behavior and emotion.
People with schizophrenia हैं संभावित to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions, including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 %.
Social problems, such as long-term बेरोजगारी, poverty, and homelessness are common.
The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is 12 to 15 years less than those without, the result of increased physical health समस्याएं और a उच्चतर आत्महत्या रेट ( परिचय 5 % ).
Paul Leslie snider ( अप्रैल 15, 1951–august 14, 1980 ) was the estranged husband and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten, whom he murdered before killing himself the same day.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem इससे मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), किंग of Uruk.
Four of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स material for a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit, shūtur एली sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer, twelve-tablet संस्करण have been recovered.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century bc assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they journey to the देवदार Mountain to defeat Humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven, which the देवी इश्तार sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the gods वाक्य enkidu to death.
The second half of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of eternal life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking you होगा never find.
जब the देवताओं निर्मित man वे allotted to him death, but life they retained in their own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death, because of his ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट, और उसके account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been translated into many different languages, and Gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within membranes.
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the टैक्सोन eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound ढांचा कि सेट eukaryotic कोशिकाएं apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus, or nuclear envelope, within which the genetic material is carried.
The उपस्थिति of a केंद्रक देता eukaryotes their name, which comes from the Greek ( eu, `` good '' ) and ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ).
Most eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
सब विशाल जटिल organisms are eukaryotes, including animals, plants and fungi.
The group also includes अनेक एककोशिकीय organisms.
Cell division in eukaryotes is different from that in जीवों बगैर a केंद्रक ( Prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated chromosomes, through आंदोलनों निर्देशित by microtubules.
There are two types of प्रभाग processes.
In mitosis, one cell divides to produce two genetically एकसमान कोशिकाएं.
In meiosis, which is required in sexual reproduction, one diploid cell ( having two instances of each chromosome, one from each जनक ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes, and then two stages of cell division, resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ).
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes, each a unique mix of the सम्बन्धित जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, and so makes up एक of the तीन domains of life.
The two other domains, Bacteria and आर्किया, हैं prokaryotes and have none of the above features.
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a human body there are 10 times more microbes than human cells.
However, due to उनके much larger आकार उनके collective worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
They are considered to have first विकसित approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago.
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to वरना लो advantage of them, for example by stealing personal information, which can even lead to identity theft.
A very common form of Internet fraud is the वितरण of दुष्ट security software.
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct fraudulent transactions, or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to वित्तीय संस्थानों or to अन्य कनेक्ट साथ the scheme.
अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी can occur in गपशप rooms, email, message boards, or on websites.
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security mission in Afghanistan that was established by the United Nations Security Council in दिसम्बर 2001 by रेज़ोल्यूशन 1386, as envisaged by the बॉन अनुबंध.
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National Security Forces ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in rebuilding key government institutions लकिन is भी सगाई in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान, al Qaeda and factional warlords, so as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai.
In अक्तूबर 2003, the un सुरक्षा परिषद प्राधिकृत the विस्तार of the isaf मिशन throughout अफगानिस्तान, और isaf subsequently विस्तारित the मिशन in चार प्रमुख चरण over the पूरे of the देश.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been involved in increasingly more intensive combat operations in southern and eastern Afghanistan.
Troop contributors include from the United States, United Kingdom, NATO member राज्य और a क्रमांक of अन्य countries.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, with the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada sustaining the majority of हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट operations, with other contributors sustaining significantly less.
As of early 2010, there were at least 700 सैन्य bases inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years.
About 400 of these were used by American‐led NATO forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant.
The name comes from `` coca '' and the alkaloid suffix -ine, forming cocaine.
It is a उत्तेजक, an appetite suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of इसके effect on the mesolimbic reward pathway.
Unlike most molecules, cocaine has pockets with both high hydrophilic और lipophilic efficiency, violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to क्रॉस the blood–brain barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or distribute cocaine for non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य in लगभग प्रत्येक country.
Whole beef tri-tip rump, roasted medium rare
The tri-tip is a cut of beef from the bottom sirloin primal cut.
It is a small triangular muscle, usually 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef.
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris, also called quadriceps extensor, a group of four मांसपेशियां जिससे in turn insert in the patella, or knee cap of the animal.
Willmar is a city in, and the county seat of, Kandiyohi काउंटी, मिनेसोटा, संयुक्त States.
The population थी 19,610 at the 2010 census.
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal सेवा.
U.S. Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40 are four of the main routes in the city.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives ( or स्पीकर of the हाउस ) is the presiding officer of the chamber.
The office was established in 1789 by Article I, Section 2 of the United States Constitution, which states in part, `` The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker... ''
The current Speaker is John Boehner, a Republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution does not require that the Speaker be a Member of Congress, but no non-member has ever been निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर.
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of succession, after the Vice President and ahead of the अध्यक्ष प्रो tempore of the u.S. सीनेट.
Unlike some वेस्टमिंस्टर प्रणाली parliaments, in जिससे the दफ्तर of स्पीकर is considered non-partisan, in the United States the Speaker of the House is a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda.
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates, instead delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party.
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party, the Speaker also performs administrative and procedural कृत्यों, and represents his or her Congressional district.
A सायकिल फ़्रेम is the प्रमुख component of a bicycle, on to which wheels and other components are fitted.
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is based on the safety bicycle, and consists of two triangles, a main त्रिभुज और a युग्म पश्च triangle.
This is known as the diamond फ़्रेम.
Frames are required to be strong, stiff and light, which they do by combining अलग सामग्री और आकार.
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' model assumes no friction or air resistance.
An exemplar animation of a लोलक प्रर्दशित the गति and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a weight निलंबित from a so that it can swing freely.
When a pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting equilibrium स्थिति, it is विषय to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's mass causes it to oscillate about the equilibrium position, swinging back and forth.
The time for one complete cycle, a left swing and a सही झूले, is called the period.
A pendulum swings साथ a specific period which depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping, and was the world 's most सटीक timekeeping प्रौद्योगिकी जबतक the 1930s.
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks, and are used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers और seismometers.
Historically they were used as gravimeters to measure the acceleration of gravity in geophysical surveys, and even as a standard of length.
The word 'pendulum ' is new Latin, from the Latin pendulus, अर्थ 'hanging '.
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized गणितीय model of a pendulum.
This is a वज़न ( or bob ) on the end of a massless cord suspended from a, without friction.
When given an initial push, it होगा swing back and forth at a constant amplitude.
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag, so the आयाम of their swings declines.
The First Battle of Bull Run, also known as First Manassas ( the name used by Confederate forces ), was fought on July 21, 1861, in Prince William County, Virginia, near the city of Manassas.
It was the first major जमीन बैटल of the American Civil War.
Just months after the प्रारंभ of the युद्ध at फोर्ट sumter, the Northern public clamored for a march against the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned Union Army across Bull Run against the equally inexperienced Confederate Army of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. beauregard camped near Manassas Junction.
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was poorly चलाया by उसके officers and men ; nevertheless, the Confederates, who had been planning to attack the Union left flank, found themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate reinforcements under Brig. Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the कोर्स of the बैटल जल्दी changed.
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the Virginia Military Institute, Thomas J. Jackson, stood their ground and Jackson received his famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack, और as the संघ सैनिकों began withdrawing under fire, many panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many casualties, and realized the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either था anticipated.
Thunderstorm near Garajau, madeira
मौसम is the state of the atmosphere, to the degree that it is hot or cold, wet or dry, calm or stormy, clear or cloudy.
Most weather phenomena occur in the troposphere, just below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature और वर्षण कार्यकलाप, whereas जलवायु is the term for the average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time.
When used without qualification, `` weather '' is understood to be the weather of Earth.
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature and नमी ) मतभेद between one place and another.
These pressure and temperature differences can occur due to the sun angle at any particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
The strong temperature कंट्रास्ट between polar and tropical air gives rise to the jet stream.
Weather प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow.
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane, sunlight is incident at different angles at अलग times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures usually range ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually.
Over thousands of years, changes in Earth 's कक्षा affect the amount and distribution of solar energy received by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change.
Surface temperature differences in turn कारण दबाव मतभेद.
Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes due to differences in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a भविष्य समय और a दिए स्थान.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small changes to one part of the system can grow to have large प्रभाव on the system as a whole.
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history, and there is evidence कि इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे as agriculture and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns.
अध्ययन कैसा the मौसम works on other planets has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth.
A famous landmark in the Solar System, Jupiter 's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed लिये at तनिक 300 years.
However, weather is not limited to ग्रहीय लाशें.
A star 's corona is constantly being lost to space, creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
The movement of mass ejected from the Sun is known as the सौर हवा.
Katy Perry is an American singer-songwriter from Santa बारबरा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
She signed साथ Capitol Records.
Perry has released three studio albums, including her debut Christian effort Katy Hudson, One of the Boys, और teenage सपना.
Perry 's mainstream career थी kicked off with the massive chart success of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl ``.
During her career, Perry has been nominated for numerous major म्यूज़िक awards, primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
The following is a list of sovereign states and territories where English is an official भाषा or भाषा of government.
In 2012, there were 88 states in total ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states ).
In many countries English is the dominant language, but does not have official status.
In Australia, English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only language used in government institutions, but Australia does not have an official language.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the संयुक्त राज्य, हालांकि अनेक राज्य and regions within the U.S. do have English as an official language.
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an आधिकारिक भाषा of कनाडा ( along with French ), India ( along with Hindi and several other languages ), Ireland ( along with Irish ), and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ).
English is the sole official language of the राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations and the Commonwealth Games.
English is one of the आधिकारिक भाषाएं of the United Nations, the European Union and the International Olympic Committee.
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see also British Empire ), or of the United States, itself a former colony of the UK.
Notable exceptions include Rwanda, which was a पूर्व belgian colony and Eritrea, which was an Italian colony where the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's भाषाई picture is complex.
According to the Constitution of India, `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme Court निर्णय और ( साथ साथ हिंदी ) is एक of the दो भाषाएं of the भारतीय पार्लियामेंट.
English is used almost exclusively for higher education, कारोबार और विज्ञान.
Courses in majority of the schools are taught exclusively in अंग्रेज़ी.
English is extensively प्रयुक्त लिये administrative purposes in India.
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in the world by क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों, after the United States.
As such, many consider English to be the de facto official language of India.
See आधिकारिक languages of India.
The linguistic makeup of Pakistan is similarly complex.
While the national language is Urdu, English is an official language and used in business, government and law.
English is a compulsory भाषा in स्कूलों.
All school courses are सिखाया in अंग्रेज़ी.
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking country in the world by जनसांख्यिकी.
Southern Cone (, ) is a geographic region composed of the southernmost areas of दक्षिण अमेरिका, दक्षिण of the Tropic of Capricorn.
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil, in terms of political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, bounded on the north by the states of Brazil, Paraguay, Bolivia and Peru, on the west by the Pacific Ocean, and south to the junction between the प्रशांत और अटलांटिक महासागर, जिससे it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the highest Human Development Index of Latin America, high Standard of living, significant participation in the global markets and the emerging economy of its members make the दक्षिणी कोन the सबसे prosperous macro-region in दक्षिण America.
For multi-event athletic प्रतियोगिताओं see Track and Field Competitions, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings are sometimes आयोजित around सम्मेलन tables.
In a meeting, two or more people आइये साथ to discuss one or more topics, often in a formal setting.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes called a regulation खेल, is a खेल कि रै progressed beyond the point at which it can be considered complete if necessary.
This is approximately the halfway पाइंट of the game.
In the case of inclement weather, any game which has reached this point may be stopped and shortened as needed, with the result being फाइनल, और सब रिकॉर्ड and statistics counted.
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either considered a suspended game ( to be continued at a later date from the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed from the start.
( This depends on the rules of each व्यक्तिगत लीग. )
In either case, no statistics are counted जबतक the game becomes official.
चूंकि सबसे पेशेवर baseball games are nine innings long, the fifth inning is used as the threshold for an official game.
If the visiting team is leading, or the खेल is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this point.
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the score, and theoretically would not need इसके हाफ of the पांचवां inning, then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game.
The game is also considered आधिकारिक if the घर टोली scores to take the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning, since the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly सब मामले, the `` आधिकारिक खेल '' status is used to determine whether a rain check will be honored for fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but does not reach the point of becoming official, fans are entitled to a new ticket for the make-up game or ( in most cases ) any अन्य उपलब्धियाँ खेल of उनके choice.
If a खेल is halted after it becomes official, the game is simply shortened and no rain check is given.
The `` आधिकारिक खेल '' statistic प्राप्त कुछ ध्यान during the 1995 season, when Cal Ripken, Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive games played, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large numbers were hung on the side of the B & O Warehouse at Oriole Park at camden गज to दिखाएँ the क्रमांक of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a new number was unfurled during the fifth inning after each game had become official ( since the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ).
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003, Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005, and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official, the team होता unveil a नई ( निम्नतर ) क्रमांक प्रर्दशित the क्रमांक of games left to be played in the stadium.
A telephone number or phone number is a sequence of digits used to call from one telephone line to another in a पब्लिक switched telephone network.
When telephone numbers were invented, वे यहूद छोटी — as few as one, two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator.
As phone systems have grown and interconnected to encompass the world, telephone numbers have become longer.
In addition to telephones, वे अभी अभिगम other devices, such as computers and fax machines.
The number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the telephone call.
Each such endpoint जरूर have a unique number within the public switched telephone network.
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal lines at least ) and therefore the number of endpoints determines the necessary लंबाई of the टेलीफोन number.
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter numbers for the endpoints सबसे प्रायः used.
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers are automatically translated to unique telephone संख्याएँ पहले the कॉल can be connected.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom, Ireland, South Africa, Poland, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Macao, Bahrain, Qatar, Bangladesh, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New जीलैंड ; कुवैत और the यूरोपीय संघ, क्रमशः. )
Many systems also allow calls within a local area to be made without डायलिंग the लोकल क्षेत्रफल code.
For example, a phone number in North America will start with तीन numbers ( such as 661 ), which is the area code, followed by seven digits split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some क्षेत्रों अभी have अनिवार्य ten-digit dialing in place, even for local calls.
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone networks ) are interconnected in the international telephone network, where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the अनुशंसा E.164.
This specifies that the entire number चाहिए be 15 अंक or shorter, and begin with a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an area code or city code and the subscriber number, which might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन number in writing or print, starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code.
When calling an अंतरराष्ट्रीय क्रमांक इससे a फिक्स्ड लकीर फोन, the + जरूर be replaced with the international call prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from.
Some मोबाईल फोन allow the + to be entered directly.
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's संबंधित सरकारी, either directly or by sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ).
Before a telephone call is कनेक्ट, the टेलीफोन number must be dialed by the calling party or Caller.
The called party might have equipment that presents caller ID before the कॉल is answered.
A collection agency is a business that pursues payments of debts owed by individuals or businesses.
Most collection एजेंसियों operate as एजेंटों of creditors and collect debts for a fee or percentage of the total amount owed.
There are अनेक types of collection agencies.
First-party agencies are oftentimes subsidiaries of the असली company the debt is owed to.
third-party एजेंसियों हैं पृथक कंपनियाँ contracted by a company to collect debts on their behalf for a fee.
Debt buyers purchase the debt at a percentage of its value, then attempt to collect it.
Each country has its own rules and regulations regarding उन्हें.
Cannabis flower with दृश्य trichomes
Cannabis, also known as marijuana ( from the Mexican स्पेनी marihuana ), और by other names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the plant, including at least 84 other cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( CBG ).
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington Redskins, as well as its predecessors the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally संस्थापित in बोस्टन, Massachusetts as the Boston Braves, named after the local baseball franchise.
The name was बदला the following year to the Redskins.
In 1937, the मताधिकार moved to Washington, D.C.
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks, दो have been inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen.
Robert Griffin iii 2012-present
Jason कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark Burnell 2004-2007
चिह्नित Rypien 1986-1993
Joe Theismann 1974-1985
सैमी baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ), popularly known as Delta Force, is one of the United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and खास Mission Units.
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has since महरूम officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively समर्थित by USASOC, it falls under the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command.
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart, the Naval Special Warfare Development Group, are the United States military 's प्राथमिक counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, direct action, and national intervention operations, although it is an extremely versatile group capable of conducting many types of covert missions, including, but not limited to, hostage rescues and raids.
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive खास क्रियाएँ Division ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force.
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms ( or 'decays ' ) into an atom with a mass number 4 कम और परमाणु क्रमांक 2 less.
Many other types of decays are संभावित.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an अस्थिर अणु loses उर्जा by emitting particles of ionizing radiation.
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which includes the emission of energetic alpha particles, beta particles, और गामा किरणें — is माना radioactive.
There are many different types of radioactive क्षय ( see table below ).
A decay, or loss of energy, results when an atom with one type of nucleus, called the parent radionuclide, transforms to an atom with a nucleus in a different राज्य, or to a अलग केंद्रक containing different numbers of protons and neutrons.
Either of these products is named the बेटी nuclide.
In some decays the parent and daughter are different chemical elements, and thus the decay process results in nuclear transmutation ( सृष्टि of an अणु of a new element ).
The first decay प्रक्रियाओं to be खोजा यहूद alpha decay, beta decay, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus ejects an अल्फा particle ( helium nucleus ).
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons, but in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the प्रक्रम पुकारा cluster decay ).
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron and a type of neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, converting a प्रोटॉन into a neutron ( electron capture ).
All of these प्रक्रियाओं result in nuclear transmutation.
By contrast, there exist radioactive decay processes that do not परिणाम in transmutation.
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a गामा रे in गामा क्षय, or प्रयुक्त to eject an orbital electron by interaction with the excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion.
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, and इस परिणाम in a change in an element from one isotope to another.
One type of radioactive decay results in products which are not defined, but appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
This decay is पुकारा spontaneous fission.
This decay happens जब a विशाल अस्थिर nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei, and usually emits gamma rays, neutrons, or other particles as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the level of single atoms, in that, according to quantum theory, it is impossible to predict when a particular atom will decay.
However, the chance that a given atom will decay is निरंतर over time.
For a large number of atoms, the decay rate for the collection is computable from the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent hair हटाना जिससे removes the hair from the root.
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed area for two to आठ सप्ताह, हालांकि कुछ लोगों will start to see regrowth in only a week.
Almost any area of the body can be waxed, including eyebrows, face, bikini area, legs, arms, वापस, उदर and feet.
There are many types of waxing suitable for removing unwanted hair.
स्ट्रिप वैक्सिंग is संपन्नता by spreading a wax thinly over the skin.
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed on the शीर्ष और ripped बंद the direction of hair growth.
इस removes the wax along with the hair.
Strip wax can also be made at home using lemon juice, water, sugar and honey.
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax ( as opposed to स्ट्रिप wax ).
In this case, the मोम is लागू somewhat thickly and with no cloth or paper strips.
The wax then hardens when it cools, thus allowing the easy removal by a चिकित्सक बगैर the सहायता of cloths.
This waxing method is very फायदेमंद to people who have sensitive skin.
Wall painting ( 1st century AD ) from pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the सभ्यता of Ancient Rome.
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic, later the Roman Empire, which, at its शिखर, covered an क्षेत्रफल इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड और मोरक्को to the Euphrates.
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome, its famed seven hills, and its monumental structures such as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ), the Forum of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The city also had अनेक थिएटर, gymnasiums, and many taverns, baths, and brothels.
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control, residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country villas, and in the capital city of Rome, वहीँ were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill, from which the word palace is derived.
The vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी जिया in the नगर center, packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ).
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time, with a population that may well have exceeded एक लाख लोगों, साथ a ऊँची समाप्त अनुमान of 3.6 लाख and a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable urban centers, with population of at least 10,000 and several military settlements, a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized part of the साम्राज्य was Italy, which had an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 %, the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800.
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum, temples and the same type of इमारतें, on a smaller scale, as found in Rome.
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task, including acquiring, transporting, storing और वितरण of food for Rome and other urban centers.
Italian farms supplied vegetables and fruits, but fish और मांस यहूद luxuries.
Aqueducts were built to bring water to urban centers और वाइन और आयल यहूद imported from Hispania, Gaul and Africa.
There was a very large amount of commerce between the provinces of the Roman Empire, since its transportation प्रौद्योगिकी थी बहुत कुशल.
The average costs of transport and the प्रौद्योगिकी यहूद comparable with 18th-century Europe.
The later city of Rome did not fill the स्पेस भीतर इसके प्राचीन Aurelian walls until after 1870.
Eighty प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of ancient Rome lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in cities and their estates were left in the care of farm managers.
The plight of rural slaves थी generally बदतर than their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households.
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed a large number of स्लेव and many received wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in एक छोटी फार्म हट in Egypt, while six families owned a single olive tree. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century, when the urban जनसांख्यिकी रोका growing and started to decline.
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC, private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture इससे the conservative moralists.
By the time of Augustus, cultured Greek household slaves taught the रोमन यंग ( sometimes भी the लड़कियों ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in the villas, or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery books ascribed to apicius is essentially Greek.
Roman writers disdained Latin for a संस्कारी यूनानी स्टाइल.
Only in law and governance was the Italic nature of रोम 's accretive संस्कृति supreme.
Against this human background, both the urban and rural setting, one of इतिहास 's सबसे influential civilizations took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today.
James Joseph `` डफी '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an American professional golfer.
Glass bottles ( for cucumber स्लाइस ) on शिपिंग pallets
A सोवियत mayonnaise jar
A आधुनिक `` French Kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float glass process, which produces चादर glass, and glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers.
A season is a subdivision of the year, marked by changes in मौसम, पारिस्थितिकी, और hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is true of the southern गोलार्ध in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और शीत ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the dry season, और in कुछ tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
in कुछ भाग of the संसार, खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane ऋतु, बवंडर ऋतु or a दावानल ऋतु.
The six ecological seasons
The four calendar seasons, depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) was the bombardment and surrender of Fort Sumter, निकट चार्ल्सटन, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, that started the American Civil War.
Following declarations of secession by seven Southern states, South Carolina demanded that the U.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, u.S. प्रमुख रॉबर्ट एंडरसन surreptitiously स्थानांतरित उसके छोटी कमांड इससे the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island to Fort Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
an attempt by u.S. अध्यक्ष James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant ship Star of the West, failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9, 1861.
South Carolina authorities then seized all Federal property in the Charleston area, except for Fort Sumter.
During the early months of 1861, the situation around Fort Sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In March, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the first general officer of the newly formed confederate States of America, was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter.
Conditions in the फोर्ट grew dire as the Union soldiers rushed to complete the installation of additional guns.
Anderson was short of men, खाना, and supplies.
The resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the administration of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम Lincoln.
He notified the Governor of South Carolina, फ्रांसिस W. pickens, कि he थी sending supply ships, which resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
Major Anderson refused to आत्मसमर्पण.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12, the Confederates bombarded the fort from तोपखाने batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the Union garrison returned fire, they were significantly outgunned and, after 34 घंटों, प्रमुख एंडरसन सहमत to evacuate.
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement, although a gun explosion during the surrender ceremonies on April 14 caused दो संघ मौतों.
following the बैटल, there was widespread support from both North and South for further military action.
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the rebellion resulted in an additional four southern slave states also declaring उनके secession और joining the Confederacy.
the Civil War had begun.
3G, short for third पीढी, is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology.
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, many services advertised as 3g provide उच्चतर speed than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G, also provide mobile broadband access of several Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in लैपटॉप computers.
3G पाता अनुप्रयोग in wireless voice telephony, mobile Internet access, fixed wireless Internet access, video calls and mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' लिखा on a wine glass tag
Traditionally, बाद the दूल्हे ब्रेक the glass, the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! ``.
A birthday cake, iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is प्रायः done in Israel.
Here the phrase is लिखा in यहूदी cursive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( यहूदी / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '', Hebrew : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` शुभ लक '' ) is a phrase used to express congratulations for a happy and significant occasion or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver, caused by the hepatitis C वायरस ( HCV ).
The infection is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis, जिससे is generally apparent after many years.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis will go on to develop जिगर विफलता, जिगर cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact associated with intravenous drug use, poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions.
An estimated 130–200 million people worldwide are infected with.
The existence of ( originally `` non- a non- B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s and proven in 1989.
only infects humans and chimpanzees.
The वायरस persists in the liver in about 85 % of those infected.
This persistent संक्रमण can be treated साथ दवा : the मानक therapy is a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin, with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of people treated are cured.
Those who develop cirrhosis or जिगर कर्कट may require a liver transplant.
is the leading cause of liver transplantation, though the virus usually recurs बाद transplantation.
No vaccine against is उपलब्धियाँ.
A flexible spending account ( FSA ), also known as a flexible spending arrangement, is one of a number of tax-advantaged financial accounts that can be set up through a कैफेटेरिया योजना of an नियोक्ता in the United States.
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified expenses as established in the cafeteria plan, most commonly for medical expenses but often for dependent care or other expenses.
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into an FSA is not subject to payroll कर, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by the end of the plan year are lost to the कर्मचारी, known as the `` use it or lose it '' rule.
The most common type of flexible spending account, the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ), is similar to a health savings account ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement खाता ( hra ).
However, while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a consumer चलित स्वास्थ्य परवाह योजना, चिकित्सा fsas हैं commonly offered साथ अधिक परंपरागत health plans as well.
In addition, funds in a health savings account are not lost when the योजना साल is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper forms or an FSA डेबिट कार्ड, also known as a Flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
टेनेसी ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive and the 17th most populous of the 50 United States.
Tennessee is bordered by केंटकी और वर्जिनिया to the north, North Carolina to the east, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian kyu dominate the पूर्वी भाग of the state, and the Mississippi River forms the state 's western border.
टेनेसी 's पूंजी और second largest city is Nashville, which has a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the state 's largest city, with a population of 652,050.
The राज्य of टेनेसी is rooted in the Watauga Association, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians.
What is अभी टेनेसी थी initially भाग of उत्तर कैरोलिना, और बाद भाग of the दक्षिणपश्चिम territory.
Tennessee was admitted to the Union as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War in 1861, और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers for the confederate फौज than कोई अन्य राज्य, और अधिक soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state.
In the 20th century, Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian economy to a more diversified economy, aided at times by संघीय entities ऐसे as the टेनेसी Valley Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of Oak Ridge was established to house the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities, helping to build the संसार 's पहला atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक, including rock and roll, blues, country, and rockabilly.
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by अनेक to be the जन्मस्थान of the blues, with musicians such as W.C. Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909.
Memphis थी भी घर to सूर्य रिकॉर्ड, जहाँ संगीतकारों ऐसे as एल्विस प्रेस्ली, इसहाक़ हेज़, जॉनी नकदी, कार्ल perkins, जेरी ली लुईस, रॉय orbison, और चार्ली समृद्ध began उनके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर, और जहाँ चट्टान और फेंकें took आकार in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music genre and the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry.
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis Rock N ' Soul संग्रहालय, the देश Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville, and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly Hall of Fame, an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in जिससे टेनेसी निभाई a crucial role, is based in Nashville.
Tennessee 's major उद्योग शामिल agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism.
Poultry, soybeans, और चौपायों हैं the राज्य 's प्राथमिक agricultural products, and major manufacturing exports include chemicals, transportation equipment, and electrical equipment.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the nation 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य, और a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border.
Other major tourist attractions शामिल the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम in चट्टानूगा, the Sunsphere in Knoxville, Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, the Parthenon, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville, and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
One design variant of a मुर्गा ring.
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's penis, usually at the base, primarily to slow the flow of blood from the erect penile tissue, thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time.
Cock rings can be worn around just the penis or both the penis and scrotum, or just the scrotum alone, though this is प्रायः called a testicle cuff.
Rings can be made of a variety of different materials, most commonly leather, rubber, or silicone, though nylon and metal are also used either as the main component or part of the closure.
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a Prince Albert piercing, a piercing of the penis that is usually, though not always, a metal ring.
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction वे हैं known by various names such as `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring ''.
the मुख्यालय of प्रमुख League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue, Midtown Manhattan, New York City, USA.
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional baseball league, consisting of teams that play in the National League and the American League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball, after 100 years as पृथक विधिक entities.
MLB constitutes one of the major पेशेवर खेल लीग of the United States and Canada.
it is रचित of 30 teams — 29 in the United States and one in Canada.
Teams in एमएलबी play 162 games each season over six months ( April through September ).
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World श्रेणी, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903.
The organization oversees many minor-league बेसबॉल leagues which operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs.
With the International Baseball Federation, the league also manages the international World बेसबॉल क्लासिक tournament.
MLB has the highest season attendance of any खेल लीग in the संसार with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state located on the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic प्रदेश of the United States.
It is bordered to the south and west by मेरीलैंड, to the पूर्वोत्तर by New Jersey, and to the north by Pennsylvania.
The state takes its name from Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, an English nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial governor, after whom what is now called केप henlopen थी originally named.
Delaware is स्तिथ in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest, the sixth least populous, but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States.
डेलावेयर is divided into three counties.
From north to south, these three counties are नई किला, Kent, and Sussex.
While the southern two counties have historically been predominantly agricultural, नई किला काउंटी has been more industrialized.
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th century, Delaware was inhabited by several groups of देशी अमेरिकी, सहित the Lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at zwaanendael, located near the present town of Lewes, in 1631.
डेलावेयर was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on December 7, 1787, became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the United States, thereby becoming known as The First State.
Energy Transformation in Energy Systems भाषा
उर्जा परिवर्तन or energy conversion is the process of changing one form of energy to another.
In physics, the term energy describes the क्षमता to उपज निश्चित changes within a system, without regard to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy.
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting उर्जा from them, as energy is a quantity which is conserved, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
According to special relativity, changes in the energy of systems will also coincide with changes in the system 's mass, and the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy.
Energy in a system may be transformed so that it resides in a अलग state, or a different type of energy.
Energy in many राज्य may be used to do many varieties of physical work.
उर्जा may be प्रयुक्त in प्राकृतिक प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने, or else to provide कुछ सेवा to समाज ( ऐसे as ऊष्मा, लाइट, or गति ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical energy in gasoline and oxygen into heat, which is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a गाडी ).
A सौर कोशिका converts solar radiation into electrical energy that can then be used to light a bulb or power a computer.
The generic name for a यंत्र जिससे converts energy from one form to another, is a transducer.
In general, most types of energy, save for thermal energy, may be converted efficiently to कोई other kind of energy.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, such as when potential energy is converted to kinetic energy as an object जलप्रपात in वैक्यूम, or जब it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to heat may भी occurs साथ nearly पूर्ण efficiency ( many types of friction do this ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many available quantum states for a collection of particles, which are freely allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of energy distribution in such राज्य, dictates that future states of the system must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution.
( There is no way, लेने the ब्रह्मांड as a whole, to collect energy into fewer states, once it has spread to them ).
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the efficiency with which थर्मल उर्जा can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of energy, since thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
Such energy is sometimes माना `` degraded energy, '' because it is not entirely usable.
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating कि, लिये इस कारण, थर्मल उर्जा in a प्रणाली may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 %, only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means, to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content.
Otherwise, only a part of thermal energy may be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा ( और यूँ, useful work ), since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower temperature, in such a way that the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the entropy decrease associated with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world, and one of the major पेशेवर खेल leagues in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, after the suspension of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती organization, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with चार टीमों और, through a series of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred थी कनाडा, although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु, the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
The एनएचएल draws अनेक अत्यधिक skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's जारी expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
This is the पूरा सूची of the ratified और unratified amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the स्वीकृति of the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified चूंकि the असली signing of the Constitution, the first ten of which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights.
The procedure for amending the United States Constitution is governed by आलेख v of the असली text.
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the United States संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस, लकिन नहीं submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can take effect, it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention ( known as an Article V convention ) called by two-thirds of the states, and ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the method of अनुसमर्थन होने संकल्पित by कॉंग्रेस at the समय of प्रस्ताव.
To date, no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states, and only once—in 1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन विधि of ratification been employed.
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services निगम.
It is one of the largest परस्पर fund and financial services groups in the world.
It was founded in 1946 और serves North American investors.
Fidelity Ventures is its venture पूंजी arm.
Fidelity International Limited ( फील ), थी an international affiliate founded in 1969, serving most countries in the rest of the world.
In September 2011, FIL was rebranded as 'fidelity Worldwide Investment '.
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund distribution and investment advice services, as well as providing discount brokerage सेवाएं, रिटायरमेंट services, wealth management, securities execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.
June 2006 was the sixth month of that year.
It began on a Thursday and ended after 30 days on a शुक्रवार the following कार्यक्रम भी occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of human society and its origins, विकास, organizations, and institutions.
It is a सोशल विज्ञान which uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical analysis to develop a body of knowledge about human social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct शोध जिससे may be लागू सीधे to social policy and welfare, while others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of individual agency and interaction to the macro level of प्रणालियों and the social structure.
The traditional focuses of sociology include social stratification, social class, culture, race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, social mobility, religion, secularization, law, and deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency, sociology has gradually विस्तारित इसके फ़ोकस to further विषय, ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य, चिकित्सा, military and penal institutions, the Internet, environmental sociology, political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge.
the दायरा of social scientific methods has also expanded.
Social researchers draw upon a variety of गुणात्मक and quantitative techniques.
the भाषाई और सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
Conversely, recent decades have seen the rise of new analytically, mathematically and computationally rigorous techniques, such as agent-based मॉडलिंग और सोशल संजाल विश्लेषण.
Sociology should not be उलझन साथ विभिन्न सामान्य सोशल अध्ययन courses which bear little relation to sociological theory or social science research methodology.
Thunder is the sound caused by lightning.
Depending on the nature of the बिजली और अलहदा of the listener, thunder can range from a sharp, loud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in pressure and temperature from lightning produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this विस्तार of एयर creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a sonic boom, which produces the sound of thunder, often referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
The अलहदा of the बिजली can be calculated by the listener based on the time interval from when the lightning is seen to when the sound is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city of the autonomous जातियाँ of the balearic Islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used पहले the युद्ध of the स्पेनी उत्तराधिकार and are still used by people in Majorca.
However, the official name was Mallorca, the वही as the island.
It is situated on the south coast of the island on the Bay of Palma.
As of the 2009 census, the population of the city of Palma proper was 401,270, and the population of the संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285, ranking as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain.
Almost half of the total जनसांख्यिकी of Majorca live in Palma.
The Cabrera Archipelago, though widely separated from Palma proper, is administratively माना भाग of the नगरपालिका.
Its विमानक्षेत्र, बेटे Sant Joan, serves over 22 million passengers each year.
The Marivent Palace was offered by the नगर to the then Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain.
The royals have since spent their summer छुट्टियाँ in Palma.
Luthor redirects यहाँ.
For other uses, see Luther ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in कॉमिक किताबे प्रकाशित by dc Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, रै भी आइये into conflict with Batman and other superheroes in the DC Universe.
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the character first appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ).
Luthor is described as `` a power-mad, evil scientist '' of high intelligence and अविश्वसनीय technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically बीच on killing Superman, the foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals.
Despite periodically wearing a powered बहि, luthor रै traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual identity.
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who, in the vein of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world साथ उसके अत्याधुनिक weaponry.
In his earliest दिखावे, Luthor is shown with a full head of red hair.
Despite this, the character later became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake.
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations, revealing उसे to be a बाल्यकाल dost of सुपरमैन 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the अक्षर थी re-imagined as a machiavellian उद्योगपति और white-collar दण्ड, even briefly serving as President of the United States.
in recent years, various writers have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th Greatest Villain by Wizard on इसके 100 महानतम Villains of All Time list.
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book खलनायक of सब समय क्रमित Luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson, one of a few genre-crossing villains whose adventures take place `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty, गिनती ड्रैकुला, hannibal lecter, डॉक्टर Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit this description.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the birthday of रेव. dr. मार्टिन Luther King, Jr.
It is observed on the third Monday of January each year, which is around the time of King 's birthday, January 15.
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday अधिनियम, हालांकि the अधिनियम predated the establishment of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by 15 years.
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent activism in the civil rights movement, which successfully protested racial discrimination in federal and state law.
The campaign for a federal holiday in King 's honor began soon after his assassination in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the अवकाश into law in 1983, and it was first observed on January 20, 1986.
At first, some states resisted observing the अवकाश as ऐसे, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays.
It was officially observed in all 50 states for the पहला समय in 2000.
The camera फोन समाधान allows instant sharing of pictures.
As it 's automatic and instant, the user does not have to use a केबल or removable मीडिया to connect to a personal computer.
A camera phone is a mobile phone which is able to capture स्टिल छायाचित्र ( and usually video ).
Since early in the 21st century the majority of mobile फोन in उपयोग are camera phones.
Most कैमरा फोन are simpler than separate digital cameras.
Their usual fixed focus lenses and छोटी सेंसर सीमा their performance in poor lighting.
Lacking a physical shutter, सबसे have a long shutter lag.
Flash, where उपस्थित, is usually weak.
Optical zoom and तिपाई screws are rare.
Some also lack a USB connection, removable memory card, or other way of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent संचार विशेषता.
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages, which apply most acutely in low लाइट शर्तें और in any case have not inhibited their widespread use.
सबसे मॉडल lines improve in these regards every year or two.
Some, such as the Droid Incredible only have a menu choice to start an application program to activate the camera.
Others, such as the BlackBerry Storm 2, Droid X, Motorola V980 and नोकिया 5800 भी have a separate camera button for quickness and convenience.
Windows Phones can be configured to operate as a कैमरा भी if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in features and picture quality, and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
The principal advantages of camera phones are cost and compactness ; बेशक लिये a उपयोक्ता जो carries a मोबाईल phone anyway, the additional size and cost are negligible.
स्मार्टफ़ोन कि हैं कैमरा phones may run mobile applications to add capabilities such as geotagging and image stitching.
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to direct their camera to focus on a particular object in the field of view, giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a उपाधि of फ़ोकस कंट्रोल exceeded तभी by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow ? '' is a 1986 comic book story featuring the dc Comics character of Superman.
लिखा by एलन मूर साथ सहायता इससे long-time, and soon to be retiring, Superman editor, Julius Schwartz, the story was published in two parts, beginning in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583, both published in September 1986.
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan, in his final major contribution to the Superman titles, and was inked by George pérez in the समस्या of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and his long history, which was being rebooted following the events of Crisis on अनन्त earths, पहले उसके modern introduction in the John Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted उसके प्लाट to सम्मान the long history of the character and to serve as a complete conclusion to his mythology.
The story is a frame story set ten years after Superman was last seen, where Lois Lane recounts the tale of the end of सुपरमैन 's करियर to a reporter from the Daily Planet.
Her story includes numerous हिंसक हमले विरूद्ध Superman by his enemies, the public revelation of his secret identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him.
The story has been cited as one of the best stories of the character of सुपरमैन, और आलोचकों and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published.
It is used as an example of how to close the long-time continuity of a comic किताब अक्षर.
The story 's legacy has endured with similar stories written as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of Tomorrow, and was used in the title of another Superman.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal उत्पादन car in the world, with a top speed of.
The original संस्करण has a top speed of.
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car चलित सब Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the engineering work being conducted under the मार्गदर्शन of अभियान्त्रिकी मुख्य वुल्फगांग Schreiber.
A number of खास variants have been produced.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiors colours by using the veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in ईसाई art, as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting.
`` At the Last Supper, on the night he was betrayed, our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his देह and Blood. ''
( catechism of the Catholic Church 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, and the bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ, रब और परमेश्वर, a घोषणा formulated by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic species ( the Body and Blood of Christ ).
The following is a सूची of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. राज्य of louisiana.
A short story is a brief work of literature, usually written in narrative prose.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short स्टोरी रै grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named characters, and focuses on a self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood.
In so doing, short stories make use of plot, resonance, and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a दूर lesser उपाधि than a novel.
While the short story is largely distinct from the novel, authors of both generally चित्रण इससे a आम पूल of literary techniques.
Short कहानियां have no नियत length.
In terms of शब्द गिनती वहीँ is no official demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a novel.
Rather, the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in which a given story is produced and considered, so कि कया constitutes a short story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication, and the evolution of the form seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines of its constituent houses.
The छोटी story has been considered both an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works, and a crafted form in its own right, collected together in books of similar length, price, and distribution as novels.
Short story writers may define their works as part of the artistic and personal expression of the form.
They may also attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form.
Area codes in मिशिगन
Area code 810 is the टेलीफोन area code serving eastern Michigan.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also known as the common raccoon, North American raccoon, northern raccoon and colloquially as coon, is a medium-sized स्तनधारी देशी to North America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family, having a देह लंबाई of and a body weight of.
इसके grayish कोट ज़्यादातर consists of dense underfur which insulates against cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and its facial mask, which are themes in the mythology of several Native American tribes.
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence, with studies showing that they are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years.
The आहार of the omnivorous raccoon, which is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests, but due to their adaptability they have extended their range to mountainous areas, coastal marshes, and urban areas, where some homeowners consider them to be pests.
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century, raccoons are now also distributed across the European मेनलैंड, the काकेशस प्रदेश और Japan.
Though previously thought to be solitary, there is now evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior.
Related females often share a common area, while unrelated males live together in समूह of up to four animals to maintain their positions against foreign males during the mating season, and other potential invaders.
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 एकड़ ) for females in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
After a gestation period of about 65 days, two to five young, known as `` kits '', are born in spring.
The kits are subsequently raised by their mother जबतक dispersion in late fall.
Although captive raccoons have been ज्ञात to सजीव over 20 सालो, their average life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years.
In many areas, hunting and vehicular चोट हैं the two most common causes of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake, with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ), approximately वेस्ट of port-au-prince, Haiti 's capital.
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 local time ( 21:53 UTC ) on मंगलवार, 12 जनवरी 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater had been recorded.
An estimated three लाख लोगों यहूद affected by the quake.
The उच्चतम reliable death count was estimated at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates were उच्चतर.
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 residences and 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or यहूद severely damaged.
The earthquake caused major damage in Port-au-Prince, Jacmel and अन्य settlements in the region.
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly क्षतिग्रस्त or destroyed, including the Presidential Palace, the National Assembly building, the Port-au-Prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
Among those killed were Archbishop of port-au-prince Joseph Serge Miot, and opposition leader Micha Gaillard.
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in हैती ( minustah ), स्तिथ in the capital, collapsed, killing many, including the Mission 's Chief, Hédi Annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid, pledging funds and dispatching rescue and medical teams, engineers and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, land, and sea transport facilities, hospitals, and electrical networks had been damaged by the earthquake, which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; confusion over who was in charge, air traffic congestion, and problems with prioritisation of फ़्लाइट further जटिल जल्दी राहत work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were overwhelmed साथ tens of thousands of bodies.
These था to be buried in mass graves.
As छुटकारा tailed off, supplies, medical care and sanitation became priorities.
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors, और लूटने और विरल violence were observed.
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the relief operation थी आरेखण to a बंद, और on the following दिन the Haitian government officially called off the search for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse, originally appearing in short stories by Walter R. Brooks, and later in an American television situation comedy produced by Filmways that पहला aired in अनुप्रयोग from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS from October 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister Ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star allan लेन ( जो गई uncredited लिये the संपूर्ण लंबाई of the series ), and his owner, an eccentric and enormously klutzy, yet friendly, architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the fact Mister Ed होता बोलो तभी to wilbur, as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's character being a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others.
according to the दिखाएँ 's producer, Arthur Lubin, Young was chosen as the lead character because he `` just seemed like the sort of guy a horse would talk to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a तख्तापलट by persuading the screen icon to guest star in one episode.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, reruns aired on Nick at Nite from March 3, 1986, to February 1, 1993.
Sister station TV Land भी reran the show from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06.
The series is currently broadcast every morning on This tv, साथ with Highway Patrol, and The Patty Duke Show.
It is also currently broadcast on Hallmark फिल्म Channel.
As of जनवरी 1, 2011, the first two seasons of the show are available on Hulu.
The Rapture is a पद in ईसाई eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 Thessalonians 4:17, when the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air ''.
The term `` Rapture '' is used in at तनिक दो होश.
In the pre-tribulation view, a group of people will be left behind on earth बाद another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the most common use of the term, especially among fundamentalist Christians and in the United States.
The other, older use of the term `` Rapture '' is बस as a पर्याय लिये the फाइनल resurrection generally, without a belief that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education, but might use the older and अधिक सामान्य भाव of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection.
There are many views among Christians regarding the समय of मसीह 's वापसी ( सहित whether it होगा occur in one event or two ), and various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as Roman Catholics, Orthodox Christians, Lutheran Christians, और reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection, when Christ returns a single time.
They do नहीं मानना कि a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren, and popularized in the United States in the early 20th century by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण of the Scofield Reference Bible.
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6, 1985 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर basketball player with the Brooklyn Nets.
The philistine cities of Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Ekron, and Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), Pleshet or Peleset, were a people who as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ), most probably from the Aegean region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, Ekron and Gath, from Wadi Gaza in the south to the Yarqon River in the north, but with no fixed border to the east.
The Bible paints them as the किंगडम of Israel 's most dangerous enemy.
originating कही in the ईजियन, उनके जनसांख्यिकी was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th century BC, of which the Aegean element was not more than half the total, and perhaps much less.
Nothing is known for certain about the original भाषा or भाषाएं of the philistines, however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population.
There is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption that the philistines were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
philistine-related शब्द मिला in the Bible are not Semitic, and can in some cases, with reservations, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st मिलेनियम bce they had adopted the general Canaanite language of the region.
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice परीक्षण, administered by the संयुक्त राज्य Military Entrance Processing Command, used to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States armed forces.
It is often offered to American high school students when they are in the 10th, 11th और 12th grade, though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it.
Although the test is administered by the military, it is not ( and never has been ) a requirement that a test-taker with a qualifying स्कोर enlist in the armed forces.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole proprietorship, a business partnership, a corporation or other business organization, such as an LLC or an LLP.
Assets, liabilities and ownership equity are listed as of a specific date, ऐसे as the समाप्त of इसके वित्तीय year.
A balance sheet is often described as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a company 's financial condition ''.
Of the four basic financial statements, the balance sheet is the only बयान जिससे applies to a सिंगल पाइंट in समय of a business ' calendar year.
A standard company balance sheet has three parts : assets, देनदारी और ownership equity.
The main श्रेणी of assets are usually listed first, and typically in order of liquidity.
Assets are followed by the liabilities.
The अंतर between the एसेट and the liabilities is known as equity or the net assets or the net worth or capital of the company and according to the accounting equation, net worth must equal assets minus liabilities.
Another way to look at the same equation is that assets बराबरी देनदारी plus owner 's equity.
Looking at the equation in this way shows how assets were financed : either by borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's धन ( owner 's equity ).
Balance sheets are usually presented with assets in one section and liabilities and net worth in the other खण्ड साथ the दो भाग `` balancing. ''
A कारोबार ऑपरेटिंग entirely in नकदी can माप its profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at the end of the period, plus any cash in hand.
however, अनेक व्यवसायों हैं नहीं paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment.
In other words : businesses have assets and so they can not, even if वे want to, तत्काल फेरे ये into नकदी at the end of each period.
Often, these businesses owe money to suppliers and to tax authorities, and the proprietors do not withdraw all their original capital and profits at the end of each period.
In other शब्द व्यवसायों also have liabilities.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly known as the.17 hmr, is a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002.
It descended from the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 Magnum case to take a.17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) bullet, and it is more costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire कारतूस.
Commonly loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet, it can उद्धार muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The Schaumburg Flyers यहूद a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team based in Schaumburg, Illinois, in the United States.
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North अमरीकी लीग, जिससे is नहीं संबद्ध with Major League Baseball, however, the team folded in March 2011, before they began play in the NAL.
From the 1999 season to the 2010 ऋतु, the flyers played their home games at Alexian Field, near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway.
the टोली formerly निभाई in Thunder Bay, Ontario, where they were known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks.
The team was originally a member of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010.
On July 27, 2009, the flyers निभाई मेजबान to बैटल of the लिंगों II, which pitted the Flyers against the National Pro Fastpitch Softball Champions, the Chicago Bandits.
Played by official softball rules, the game was seen by an अतिप्रवाह रिकार्ड भीड of 8,918, and was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the Flyers नियुक्त उनके first manager, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known for his playing दिनों साथ the शिकागो White Sox, and former Chicago Cubs and White Sox player Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach.
During the early years of the franchise, Kittle किया a श्रेणी of tv commercials to प्रचार the team, using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle. '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma. ''
The ads were successful at sparking some आरंभिक interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where Larry जॉनसन स्ट्रक्चर as both himself and `` Gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, Kittle resigned इससे उसके managerial स्थिति, and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the Northern लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी विरूद्ध the St. Paul Saints.
Despite leading the five-game series 2-1, schaumburg आखिरकार lost the series.
In Game 5, Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed a game winning grand slam by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) but never won the championship.
Some famous players जो निभाई लिये the flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder Ozzie Canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी फिल्मी और theatre actress and former fashion model.
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in the जल्दी 1990s, तब प्रारंभ working in टेलीविज़न, appearing in Inspector Morse, the British mini-series Scarlet and Black, and the television film Advocates II.
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ), but her breakthrough role came in the film Chain Reaction ( 1996 ), leading to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy रिटर्न ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates, About a Boy, Constantine, The Fountain and The Constant Gardener, for which she received an Academy Award, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle.
She has been labelled an `` English rose '' चूंकि her minor role in Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ).
Weisz also works in theatre.
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play Design for Living, which earned her the London Critics Circle पुरस्कार for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances भी शामिल the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly, Last Summer, and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire.
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter play earned her the Critics ' Circle Theatre पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री.
वो रै recently निभाई evanora in oz the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate सिविल war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to ग्यारह.
The Union soon controlled the border राज्य और established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a form of bread in which आलू replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
It is cooked in a variety of विधि, सहित by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, and may have a किस्में of other ingredients baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly इससे रेसिपी to recipe, with some recipes having a majority of potato, and others having a majority of wheat flour.
Some व्यंजनों कॉल for mashed potatoes, with others calling for dehydrated potato flakes.
It is available as a commercial product in many countries, with similar variations in ingredients, cooking method, and other variables.
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by subtracting आठ घंटों इससे समन्वित सार्वभौमिक Time ( ).
The clock time in this zone is आधारित on the mean solar time of the 120th meridian west of the Greenwich Observatory.
During daylight saving समय, its time offset is.
In the United राज्य and Canada, this time zone is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ).
Specifically, it is Pacific Standard Time ( PST ) when observing standard time ( winter ), और प्रशांत daylight समय ( पीडीटी ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ).
Most of कनाडा उपयोग daylight saving time.
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is known as the Northwest Zone, which is synchronized साथ the u.S. पीडीटी daylight छायांकन अनुसूची.
The largest नगर in the Pacific Time Zone is Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone, one hour behind the Mountain Time Zone and three घंटों पीछे the पूर्वी Time Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tape, or simply eight-track, is a magnetic tape sound recording technology.
It was popular in the United States from the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s, लकिन थी अपेक्षाकृत unknown in many European countries.
It was, however, very popular in the संयुक्त Kingdom during this period.
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear Jet Corporation, along with Ampex, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Motorola, and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
It was a further विकास of the समान stereo-pak four-track cartridge created by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz.
A later quadraphonic version of the format थी घोषित by आरसीए in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as rameses और ramses or ), referred to as Ramesses the Great, was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
He is often regarded as the greatest, सबसे मनाये, and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire.
His successors and बाद उन्होंने called him the `` Great Ancestor. ''
Ramesses II led several military expeditions into the levant, re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan.
He also led expeditions to the south, into Nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
At age चौदह, Ramesses was appointed Prince Regent by his father Seti I.
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt from 1279 BC to 1213 bc लिये 66 सालो और 2 महीने, according to दोनो manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records.
He was once said to have lived to be 99 years old, but it is more likely that he died in उसके 90th or 91st year.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists today believe, he होता have assumed the सिंहासन on may 31, 1279 BC, based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27.
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after thirty years of a pharaoh 's reign, and then every three years ) दौरान उसके reign—more than कोई अन्य pharaoh.
On his death, he was दफ्न in a मकबरा in the घाटी of the किंग्स ; his body was later moved to a royal cache where it was discovered in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
the जल्दी part of his reign was focused on building cities, temples and monuments.
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the Nile Delta as उसके नई capital and main base for his campaigns in Syria.
This city was built on the remains of the city of Avaris, the capital of the Hyksos when they took over, and was the location of the main Temple of Set.
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources, from a transliteration into Greek of a part of Ramesses 's throne name,, `` Ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
The Texas Rangers are a पेशेवर baseball team located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the Western Division of Major League Baseball 's अमरीकी लीग.
Since, the रेंजरों have निभाई in Rangers Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's name is उधार इससे the famous law enforcement agency of the same name.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators, an expansion team awarded to Washington, D.C., after the नगर 's first ballclub, the original Washington Senators, moved to Minnesota and became the Twins.
After the season, the new Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, and debuted as the Rangers the following spring.
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason, all following division championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers उन्नत पास्ट the Division Series for the first time, defeating the Tampa Bay Rays.
Texas then brought home their first American League Pennant after beating the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ in six games.
In the 2010 World Series, the franchise 's first, the Rangers fell to the San Francisco Giants in five games.
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to win a World Series game, the Houston Astros having been swept in their 2005 World Series appearance.
They repeated as American League champions the following year, then lost the 2011 World श्रेणी to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was a Roman general, statesman, Consul and notable author of लैटिन prose.
He played a critical role in the events that led to the demise of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a political गठबंधन कि was to dominate Roman politics for several years.
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the conservative elite within the Roman Senate, among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul, completed by 51 bc, विस्तारित रोम 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine.
Caesar became the पहला Roman general to cross both when he built a bridge across the Rhine and conducted the first invasion of Britain.
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey, who had realigned himself with the Senate after the death of Crassus in 53 BC.
With the Gallic Wars concluded, the Senate ordered Caesar to lay down his military command and वापसी to Rome.
Caesar refused, and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a legion, leaving उसके प्रांत और illegally entering Roman territory under arms.
Civil war resulted, from which he emerged as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
After assuming control of government, Caesar began a program of social and governmental reforms, सहित the creation of the Julian calendar.
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was eventually proclaimed `` तानाशाह in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved, and on the Ides of March ( 15 March ) 44 BC, Caesar was assassinated by a group of senators led by मार्कस junius Brutus.
A new series of सिविल युद्धों broke आउट, and the constitutional government of the Republic was never restored.
Caesar 's adopted heir Octavian, later known as Augustus, rose to sole power, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his military campaigns, and from other contemporary sources, mainly the letters and speeches of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of Caesar by Suetonius and Plutarch हैं भी major sources.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the महानतम military commanders of history.
Linguistic map of Nigeria, Cameroon, और बेनिन.
Sign in English, outside the विश्वविद्यालयों of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages spoken in सीरियल.
The major languages are Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, Edo, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and ibb.
The official language of Nigeria, अंग्रेज़ी, the पूर्व colonial language, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a whole, encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, ऐसे as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
Daucus carota ( common names शामिल जंगली गाजर, ( uk ) बर्ड 's घोंसला, bishop 's lace, and Queen Anne 's lace ( North America ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native to temperate regions of Europe, southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia.
Domesticated carrots are cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the अध्यक्ष of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals, and ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त States district courts.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the संघीय सरकारी by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the Court of अंतरराष्ट्रीय Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
अन्य न्यायाधीशों सेवारत in the संघीय न्यायालयों, सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों, हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, और उनके शक्ति गर्भाशयी इससे आलेख i बजाय.
See आलेख i and Article III tribunals.
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई singer, songwriter and actress.
She has sold 20 million albums विश्वव्यापी और अधिक 20 million singles, bringing her total sales to over 40 million records around the world.
Furtado first gained fame with her debut album, वाह, नेल !
, जिससे spawned two successful singles, `` I 'm Like a Bird `` and `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno Award for Single of the साल and a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
In 2003, Furtado released Folklore, which produced three international singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) ``, `` कोशिश `` और `` Força ``.
Three years later she released ढीला, a worldwide commercial success.
The album spawned four number-one hits : `` Promiscuous ``, `` Maneater ``, `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( आइये to an समाप्त ) ``.
After a three-year break, she released her first full-length Spanish album, Mi Plan, and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album.
In 2012, Furtado 's चौथी english-language स्टुडियो album, The Spirit Indestructible was released.
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous awards and accolades, including 2 Grammy Awards, 10 Juno Awards, 3 muchmusic वीडियो पुरस्कार और a स्टार on Canada 's Walk of Fame.
Creatures of the रात्रि is the tenth studio album by Kiss.
It is the band 's last album for Casablanca रिकॉर्ड, the तभी लेबल the group had ever recorded for at that point.
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart, who had died of कर्कट दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग सत्र.
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's psycho सर्कस ), और इसके पहला एल्बम साथ vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( Vincent would later be credited, but not featured pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
Touch is a निर्णायक means of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying stairs for visually impaired people.
The somatosensory प्रणाली is a विविध संवेदी system comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as touch, temperature, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia, skeletal मांसपेशियां, bones and joints, internal organs, and the cardiovascular system.
While touch is considered one of the five traditional senses, the impression of टच is formed इससे अनेक modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial term `` touch '' is usually replaced with `` somatic senses '' to better प्रतिबिंबित the variety of mechanisms involved.
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses, with the understanding that somesthesis शामिल टच, proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception.
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of information from the receptors गुजरता via sensory nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal पालि of the cerebral cortex.
The cortical homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a विशिष्ट stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; this signal eventually passes to an area in the brain uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is called a homunculus and is essential in the creation of a body image.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) मैप is नहीं अपरिवर्तनीय, however.
नाटकीय shifts can occur in response to stroke or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of परिचय 210 flowering plant species in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae.
It is named after French botanist Pierre magnol.
Magnolia is an प्राचीन genus.
Appearing before bees did, the flowers evolved to encourage pollination by भृंग.
To avoid क्षति इससे pollinating beetles, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough.
fossilised नमूनों of magnolia acuminata have महरूम मिला डेटिंग to 20 लाख सालो पहले, और of पौधे identifiably belonging to the magnoliaceae डेटिंग to 95 लाख years ago.
Another aspect of magnolias कि is माना to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud is enclosed in a bract rather than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering plant lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ).
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution, with a main centre in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America, Central America, the West Indies, and some species in South America.
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving Berlin सोंग reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the Guinness Book of World रिकॉर्ड, the संस्करण सुंग by bing crosby is the best-selling single of all time, with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.
Accounts vary as to when and where Berlin लिखा the song.
One story is that he wrote it in 1940, in warm La Quinta, California, while staying at the La Quinta Hotel, a frequent Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer Frank Capra, although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there.
He often stayed up all night writing — he told his secretary, `` Grab अपना कलम और लो bas this song.
I just wrote the best song I 've ever written — heck, I just wrote the best song that anybody 's कभी लिखा ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in which participants propel themselves across snow-covered terrain using skis और डंडे.
The activity is popular in many places with large snowfields, primarily Northern Europe, Canada, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family, जिससे शामिल स्की कूद, Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ), Biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of स्कीइंग कि सबसे resembles prehistoric skiing, particularly when done in the backcountry.
It is also related to Telemark skiing.
a उपयोग कर in संयुक्त राज्य is पूरक to बिक्री कर जिससे अर्थात्, if तुम ख़रीदे a taxable product/services बगैर paying कोई बिक्री कर to विक्रेता, तुम owe उपयोग कर.
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the state where the products were खपत or सेवाएं यहूद rendered.
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you buy an item ( बगैर paying बिक्री कर ) और store it in your warehouse initially, use tax applies to that location where goods were stored.
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some other location, you are required to pay the differential of tax rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate प्लेस of consumption.
This really means that you do n't have to pay both Sales कर as खूब as उपयोग Tax on one transaction.
it is तभी एक or the अन्य कि तुम हैं जरूरी to अदा on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the दायित्व of the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication.
Use Tax is generally charged at the same tax rate of Sales Tax but in some states the tax rate is different.
Use tax is also termed as `` खपत कर '' or `` उपभोक्ता Use Tax ''.
A use tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United States by numerous state governments.
It is assessed upon ठोस निजी प्रॉपर्टी खरीदा by a resident of the assessing state for use, storage, or consumption in that state ( not for resale ), regardless of where the purchase took place.
If a resident of a state makes a purchase within उसके घर राज्य, पूरा sales tax is paid at the time of the transaction.
The use tax applies when a resident of the assessing state purchases an item that is not subject to his home state 's sales tax.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering वस्तुएं through the मेल, by फोन, or over the Internet from other states.
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax that would have महरूम owed ( if any ) had the same goods been purchased in the state of residence.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` sales and use कर '' on निश्चित goods और सेवाएं, purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use, storage or other consumption in Massachusetts.
Under New Hampshire law, the New Hampshire vendor collects no sales taxes on the goods, but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax.
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase, whatever taxes were paid by the क्रेता to that state can be deducted ( as a tax credit ) from the 6.25 % owed for subsequent use, storage or consumption in Massachusetts.
With few अपवाद, no राज्य 's विक्रेता होगा चार्ज the देशी राज्य 's बिक्री tax on goods shipped out of state, meaning all goods ordered from out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax.
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and pay the use tax to his home state on these ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may make the उपयोग कर देय annually, but some states require a monthly payment.
For example, where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use in the state, Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th day of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee, a 5 % दंड प्रति माह, to a अधिकतम of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties.
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental agencies, purchases for resale in commerce, and purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business.
Also note that there are हज़ारों of कर jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the Internet for installation and use in Massachusetts, regardless of where it originates.
However, the actual use of the same software डाउनलोड by a मैसाचुसेट्स निवासी to a सर्वर in another state remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, Arkansas generally करता नहीं कर anything वितरित over the अंतरजाल ( such as downloaded software or music ), except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online, except `` custom software for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग सेवाएं '' भी if वितरित on a डिस्क.
In most cases, this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the बिक्री कर कानून of इसके own location, remote sellers have to deal with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to every US state and locality that assesses them, if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery, pulmonary vein, or pulmonary capillaries, together known as the lung vasculature, leading to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, और अन्य लक्षण, सब of जिससे हैं exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance और दिल विफलता.
It was first identified by Dr. अर्नस्ट वोन romberg in 1891.
According to the most हाल वर्गीकरण, it can be एक of पाँच अलग प्रकार : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or miscellaneous.
सही
सही
Sanuk, a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation, is a जूते ब्रांड आधारित in Southern California.
Sanuk, the Thai word for fun, was संस्थापित by दक्षिणी California native Jeff Kelley when he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The first product created was green carpeted and entitled the `` फर रियल '' बाद एक दूकान मालिक पूछा if the विलक्षणता sandal was `` For Real. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores and not the intended surf shops.
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in wire mesh, a तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण, and styles made out of a poncho material in a variety of colors.
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men, women and youth and is distributed across the United States and in over 50 देशों throughout यूरोपीय, एशिया, दक्षिण America and Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle advocating the slogan, `` Smile, pass it on ! ``.
In computer science, array programming languages ( also ज्ञात as वेक्टर or multidimensional languages ) generalize operations on scalars to apply transparently to vectors, matrices, and higher dimensional arrays.
Array programming primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस broad ideas about data manipulation.
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to find array programming language one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of जावा code.
APL, designed by Ken Iverson, was the first programming भाषा to provide सरणी programming capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and not to arrays per se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor and clarity was संभवतः अधिक महत्वपूर्ण than the simple extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party, usually an individual, pays a life insurance company a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि will later be distributed back to the insured party over time.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time, such as via fixed payments, until the death of the person or persons named in the contract or until a final date, whichever comes पहला.
However, the majority of modern annuity customers use annuities only to accumulate funds free of income and capital gains taxes and to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
President Barack ओबामा.
Barack Obama with his first Supreme Court nominee, Sonia Sotomayor.
Following is a list of सब संयुक्त राज्य संघीय न्यायाधीशों appointed by President Barack Obama during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate, namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States, 35 न्यायाधीशों to the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations are currently awaiting सीनेट action.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals, 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term.
Obama has not made any recess appointments to the संघीय न्यायालयों.
Obama has बना दो nominations to the United States Court of International Trade, an Article III tribunal.
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of संघीय दावा, an Article I court, to be Chief Judge of that court.
This is a list of एयरपोर्ट in मैक्सिको, sorted by location.
Mexico has about 1,834 airports, ranking 2nd in number of airports in North America, and 3rd in the world.
तभी प्रमुख National and International Airports are shown.
Agency debt also known as an एजेंसी बंध is a security, usually a bond, issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not guaranteed by the US government since the agencies हैं निजी entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan Marketing Association ( Sallie Mae ), Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home ऋण बंधक निगम ( Freddie Mac ).
Agency securities are प्रायः exempt इससे राज्य और लोकल taxes, but not federal tax.
Agency debt is also called an agency security.
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, a खौलते water reactor.
The reactors are located inside the आयताकार containment buildings towards the front of the cooling towers.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and USS Long Beach with USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members are spelling out आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck.
the रूसी nuclear-powered icebreaker NS Yamal on a 1994 joint expedition with the NSF.
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nuclear परिवर्द्धन to generate heat and electricity.
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the world 's उर्जा और 13 % of the संसार 's electricity, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( although not all हैं producing electricity ), in 31 countries.
In addition, there are approximately 140 naval vessels using नाभिकीय नोदन in operation, powered by some 180 reactors.
There is an ongoing debate about the उपयोग of नाभिकीय energy.
Proponents, such as the World Nuclear Association, the IAEA and Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy contend that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as Greenpeace International and NIRS, believe that nuclear power poses many threats to people and the environment.
Nuclear power plant accidents include the chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ), Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ), and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
There have also been some nuclear-powered पनडुब्बी mishaps.
Research into safety improvements is continuing and nuclear fusion, believed to be safer, may be प्रयुक्त in the भविष्य.
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, worldwide there were 68 civil nuclear power reactors under निर्माण in 15 देशों.
In the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have महरूम extended to 60 years, and plans to build another dozen are under serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of नाभिकीय उर्जा नीति in many countries.
Germany decided to बंद all its reactors by 2022, and Italy has banned nuclear power.
Following Fukushima, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be निर्मित by 2035.
फोटोग्राफ of the बर्लिन Wall taken from the West side.
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent East Germans from fleeing from Communism.
It was an iconic प्रतीक of the Cold War and its fall in 1989 marked the end of the War.
The Cold War, often dated from 1947 to 1991, was a sustained state of political and military tension between powers in the Western Bloc, dominated by the United States with NATO among its allies, and powers in the Eastern Bloc, वर्चस्व by the सोवियत Union along with the Warsaw Pact.
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi Germany, leaving the USSR and the us as two superpowers with profound economic and political differences.
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by Egypt, India, and Yugoslavia ; this faction rejected association with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East.
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat.
Instead, in their struggle for global influence they engaged in ongoing psychological warfare and in regular indirect confrontations through प्रॉक्सी wars.
Cycles of relative calm would be followed by high tension, which could have led to world war.
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ), the Berlin Crisis of 1961, the Cuban missile crisis ( 1962 ), the Vietnam युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ), the योम kippur युद्ध ( 1973 ), the सोवियत युद्ध in अफगानिस्तान ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic conventional force deployments, extensive aid to client states, espionage, विशाल प्रचार अभियान, conventional और nuclear arms races, appeals to neutral nations, rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ), and technological competitions such as the Space Race.
the us और ussr became involved in political and military conflicts in the Third World countries of Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia.
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war, both sides sought relief of political tensions through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased diplomatic, military, and economic pressures on the Soviet Union, at a time when the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य थी already कष्ट from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in Eastern Europe, especially Poland.
They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to support the faltering government of East Germany in late 1989.
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( there was some violence in Romania ).
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet Union, where Communism fell and the USSR was formally dissolved in late 1991.
The United States remained as the world 's तभी महाशक्ति.
The Cold War and its events have left a significant legacy, and it is often referred to in popular संस्कृति, विशेषकर in मीडिया featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
Pikes Peak State Park is a state पार्क of आयोवा, यूएसए, featuring a bluff overlooking the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River.
The park is operated by the आयोवा विभाग of Natural Resources.
It is nearly a thousand acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
The निकटतम city is McGregor, Iowa.
Iowa Highway 76 लगभग defines इसके उत्तरी boundary.
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes Peak, a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper मिसिसिपी, और जैसे Pikes Peak in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
वहीँ हैं चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds and RV facilities.
Mountain bikes are permitted in निश्चित portions of the park.
Aside from recreational development, the land in the park थी never cleared and to a large extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement.
It is part of a larger complex of parks, reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds नेशनल स्मारक, the विभिन्न components of the पीला नदी राज्य Forest, the enormous Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller, much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge.
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing विकास, और होगा कनेक्ट elements of these sites.
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band based in अटलांटा, Georgia.
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle, vocals ), John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar, vocals ), Coy Bowles ( guitar, keyboards ), क्रिस fryar ( ड्रम ), मिट्टी कुक ( गिटार, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
The band has toured throughout the संयुक्त राज्य, including a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have also recorded five studio albums, and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` Highway 20 Ride ``, `` Free ``, `` As She 's Walking Away ``, `` Colder Weather ``, `` Knee Deep ``, `` Keep Me In Mind ``, and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in जोड to the singles `` whatever it is `` और `` no hurry ``, जिससे peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
Talk radio is a radio format containing discussion परिचय topical issues.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual, and often feature साक्षात्कार साथ a number of different guests.
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation, usually by broadcasting live conversations between the host and श्रोता जो `` कॉल in '' ( प्रायः via telephone ) to the show.
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience interest and, in the case of commercial talk radio, attract advertisers.
Generally, the shows are organized into segments, each separated by a pause for advertisements ; however, in public or non-commercial रेडियो, म्यूज़िक is sometimes निभाई in place of commercials to separate the program segments.
Variations of talk radio include रूढ़िवादी talk, hot talk, liberal talk and sports talk.
While talk radio has historically been संबद्ध साथ AM/FM, starting around 2005 the technology for Internet-based talk-radio shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts.
Now, it is possible for an individual to use a variety of services to host an Internet-based talk-radio दिखाएँ बगैर carriage by a traditional radio station.
In addition TV programming from talk and news outlets such as BBC, CNN, Bloomberg and Fox are now often available expanding the world of बात radio further.
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed नहीं तभी on radios, लकिन a wide variety of other devices and services including PCs using iTunes, station directories such as Tunein, show directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla fabricius, 1787
hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz, 1892 )
hippa alcimede ( De Man, 1902 )
hippa australis Hale, 1927
Hippa carcineutes holthuis & Manning, 1970
Hippa celaeno ( de man, 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
hippa hirtipes ( Dana, 1852 )
hippa इंडिका haig, मुरुगन & बालकृष्णन नायर, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
hippa picta ( Heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( miers, 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita, and species have often been transferred between the two genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially known as the खास Capital Region of Jakarta ( ), is the capital and largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the northwest coast of Java, Jakarta is the country 's economic, cultural and political centre, and with a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011, it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia, and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official metropolitan area, known as jabodetabek ( a नाम formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, Depok, Tangerang and Bekasi ), is the second largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 Globalization and World शहरों पढ़ाई समूह and Network ( GaWC ) research.
and has an क्षेत्रफल of.
This area has population of well over 28 million, making it one of the world 's largest conurbations in शर्तें of number of inhabitants.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the world 's 200 largest cities, a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than Kuala Lumpur, Beijing and Bangkok.
Established in the fourth century, the city became an important trading बंदरगाहों लिये the किंगडम of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia ) and has जारी as the पूंजी of Indonesia since the country 's independence was declared in 1945.
The city is the seat of the ASEAN Secretariat.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport, and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity और commuter रेल, and served by several bus lines running on reserved busways.
A typical home एयर कंडीशनिंग window unit.
Air कंडीशनिंग is the process of altering the properties of air ( primarily temperature and humidity ) to more favourable conditions.
More generally, air conditioning can refer to any form of technological कूलिंग, हीटिंग, ventilation, or disinfection that modifies the condition of air.
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con, AC or A/C, and not to be confused with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance, system, or mechanism designed to change the air तापमान और आर्द्रता भीतर an क्षेत्रफल ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle, but sometimes evaporation is used, commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles.
In निर्माण, a पूरा प्रणाली of heating, ventilation and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a सोंग by अमरीकी rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is taken from his ninth studio album, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on iTunes on December 16, 2010.
It was produced by `` A Milli `` निर्माता बांग्लादेश.
The song samples `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte.
DC Talk ( styled as dc Talk ), is a ग्रैमी -winning Christian rap trio.
The group was formed in lynchburg, वर्जिनिया in 1987 by Toby McKeehan, Michael Tait, and Kevin Max Smith.
They have released five major studio albums together : DC Talk ( 1989 ), Nu Thang ( 1990 ), Free at Last ( 1992 ), यीशु freak ( 1995 ), और Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk `` the most popular overtly Christian act of all time. ''
In 2000, the समूह released an EP titled Solo which contained two solo songs from each member.
Since that time, dc बात रै महरूम on an indefinite hiatus, and the three band members have each led solo careers.
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times दौरान the 2000s, हालांकि the समूह never officially reunited or disbanded.
The group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout their career.
Their first two releases, DC Talk and Nu Thang, यहूद of the hip hop genre.
DC Talk 's third album, Free at Last, also मुख्यतः took influence from the hip hop style, although their music began taking on a rock sound.
The trio 's last two albums, Jesus Freak and अलौकिक, यहूद predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at different times और बाद समवेत into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of these books have महरूम विभाजित into अध्याय, generally a page or so in length, since the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th century, each अध्याय रै महरूम further divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the case of, and sometimes there is more than one वाक्य in a single verse, as in the case of.
As the chapter and verse divisions were not part of the original texts, they form part of the paratext of the Bible.
The Jewish divisions of the यहूदी टेक्स्ट differ at various points from those used by Christians.
For instance, in Jewish tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses, making 116 more verses, whereas the established Christian practice is to गिनती और क्रमांक each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in अलग स्थान, e.g. in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian translations.
An अनुक्रमणिका ( बहुवचन : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and associated pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will include names of people, places and events, and concepts selected by a person as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book.
The pointers are typically page numbers, paragraph numbers or खण्ड numbers.
In a library catalog the words are authors, titles, subject headings, etc., और the संकेतक are call numbers.
Internet search engines, such as Google, and full text searching help provide access to information but are not as selective as an index, as they provide non-relevant links, and may मिस प्रासंगिक information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect.
In United States financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes प्रवर्तन संजाल ( fincen ), an एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष, regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity.
फेसबुक on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा, जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन थी विस्तारित to other colleges in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various other universities before opening to high school विद्यार्थी, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site.
Users must register before using the site, after which they may create a personal profile, add other users as friends, and exchange messages, including स्वचालित सूचनाएं when they update their profile.
Additionally, उपयोक्ता may जुड़ें common-interest उपयोक्ता समूह, व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल, school or college, or other characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of September 2012, Facebook has over one अरब क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10, violating the साईट 's शर्तें of सेवा.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा by worldwide monthly active users.
entertainment साप्ताहिक included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on earth did we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य, resulting in विशाल amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique u.S. विज़िटर in may 2011.
According to सोशल मीडिया आज, in अप्रैल 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, फेसबुक 's market growth started to stall in some regions, with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in मेनलो पार्क, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Facebook Inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
सल्फोनेमाइड functional group
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide and a thiazide.
furosemide is a sulfonamide, but not a thiazide.
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic रोगाणुरोधी एजेंटों कि contain the sulfonamide group.
Some sulfonamides are also devoid of जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are नए ड्रग समूह आधारित on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies are common, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa दवाएँ और अन्य sulfur-containing दवाएँ और एडिटिव, such as sulfates and sulfites, which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group, and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides.
This is a सूची of characters from George Lopez.
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese ( either Greylag Geese or Swan Geese ) kept as poultry for their meat, eggs, and down feathers since ancient times.
30 सेकेंड to मंगल is an American rock band from Los Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, rhythm guitar, songwriter ), Shannon Leto ( drums, percussion ) और tomo miličević ( सीसे गिटार, keyboards ).
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007, Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the समूह, performing सजीव तभी साथ दोनो jared और miličević recording bass for studio recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
Previously, the समूह भी featured guitarists Solon Bixler ( now of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ).
To तिथि, 30 सेकेंड to मंगल have released तीन स्टुडियो albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ), A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ), This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive metal and post-grunge, but they have also included emo, screamo, space rock and synthrock into their music.
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics, concept albums and their use of experimental music.
A Christmas Story is a 1983 अमरीकी क्रिसमस कॉमेडी film based on the short stories and semi-fictional anecdotes of author and raconteur Jean Shepherd, based on his book In God We Trust, All Others Pay Cash, with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories.
It was directed by bob Clark.
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous times on television during the Christmas season on the संजाल TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस for being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A Joe 's Crab shack शाखा in San Diego, CA.
The building was initially a rowing club और थी later converted into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American chain of beach-themed seafood casual dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group.
Founded in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास, the restaurant now operates locations all across the United States of America.
It serves seafood and अमरीकी cuisine.
The रेस्तरां also have a gift shop that sells facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices.
It is based in ह्यूस्टन, Texas.
New York City Cruise लाइनर टर्मिनल in Hell 's Kitchen at 52nd Street.
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the लक्ज़री लाइनर पंक्ति or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of North River Piers 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the हडसन नदी between West 46th and West 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier numbers in Manhattan can be determined by adding 40 to the सम्बन्धित cross-street. )
Ships now dock at Piers 88, 90 and 92.
बांध 94 on the north side is now used for exhibition space.
Pier 86, एकबार used by United States Lines, is now home to the USS Intrepid.
In 2003, the terminal संभाला 900,000 passengers.
The city is forecasting that 1.5 लाख होगा उपयोग the terminal by 2017.
The piers हैं long and apart.
They were first completed in 1935 to replace the Chelsea Piers as the नगर 's luxury liner terminal.
The new terminal was built to handle बडे जहाजों कि था outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 and are currently undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The renovated plans call for it to handle three विशाल जहाजों at a time.
In doing renovations, the नगर is also considering decommissioning Pier 92.
Logo of the नई यॉर्क क्रूज Terminal.For
decades the terminal was the only ocean-going यात्री टर्मिनल in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time, two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in bayonne, नई जर्सी ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ), and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to below वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब the टर्मिनल was built land had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers.
The US Army Corps of Engineers, who कंट्रोल the waterfront dimension, would not extend the pierhead line farther into the river, so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land.
The city earlier did this for the चेल्सी Piers ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away.
At the Passenger Terminal actual मैनहटन schist थी लिया away.
From downstream in the river
Many major passenger ships have docked there, including the RMS महारानी मरियम 2 और Freedom of the Seas, before the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened.
The SS Normandie caught fire और subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth during World War II.
The Normandie, renamed uss lafayette, झूठ capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's जल्द to be नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the cruise terminal to accommodate the जलयान.
This is an overview of the regular, recurring, and other characters of the TV श्रेणी ncis.
Christian right is a term used in the United States to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by their strong support of socially conservative नीतियों.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming the value of those teachings and/or by seeking to use those शिक्षाओं to influence law and public policy.
In the U.S., the Christian right is an अनौपचारिक गठबन्धन formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण Protestants that draws `` support from politically conservative Catholics, Jews, Mormons, and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals.
The movement has its roots in American politics going back as far the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, from grassroots activism as well as their focus on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on issues including school prayer, stem cell research, homosexuality, निरोधक, गर्भपात, और pornography.
हालांकि the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S., the movement has been a key factor in the politics of Canada, The Netherlands, Northern Ireland and Australia, among others.
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated FM ) is an American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ), Prohgress ( James Roh ), J-Splif ( Jae Choung ), and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's पहला अर्जी to कीर्ति was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the Hollywood movie, The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift, and its subsequent soundtrack, video game and DVD.
Since `` Round गोलाकार '', the group has been featured on various network shows including,, Entourage, Gossip Girl, and Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट and on iTunes as well in late October 2010.
Far East Movement also has the distinction of being the first Asian-American group to earn a # 1 hit on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 in the United States.
LR44 is the IEC designation for an क्षारीय 1.5 वोल्ट बटन कोशिका, commonly प्रयुक्त in small LED flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
LR44 क्षारीय cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्युततकनीकी Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries, part 3 Watch batteries ).
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative electrode, मैंगनीज डाइऑक्साइड depolarizer and positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm ऊँचाई as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their own part numbers for IEC type LR44 batteries including:
LR44, LR44G, lr44gd, LR44H
lr1154, L1154, L1154C, L1154F, L1154G, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166a
AG13, A613, AG14, AG-14, g13a, g13-a
157, 303, 357
A76, gda76, gp76a, GPA7, GPA75, GPA76, GPS76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, CA18, CA19, CR44, D76A, KA, ka76, ms76h, PX76A, PX675A, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, C, AA, AAA, aaaa, a23, 9-volt, CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries are or were made in the r44 आकार.
Formerly, mercury batteries were बना as बटन कोशिकाएं ( प्रकार MR44 and NR44 ).
Zinc-air बैटरी प्रकार PR44 require air to work.
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra क्षमता compared to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics.
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded with प्रतिस्थापन of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's numbers for silver ऑक्साइड r44 आकार cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
epx76 ( Energizer )
303/357 ( D357H )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
It was the costliest natural disaster, as well as one of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the इतिहास of the United States.
Among recorded Atlantic hurricanes, it was the sixth strongest overall.
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
Hurricane कैटरीना formed over the Bahamas on August 23, 2005 and crossed southern Florida as a moderate Category 1 hurricane, causing some deaths and flooding there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf water, but weakened before बनाना इसके दूसरी landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused severe destruction along the Gulf coast from central Florida to Texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant number of deaths occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स, Louisiana, which flooded as the levee system catastrophically failed, in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, and the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
However, the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas, such as all Mississippi beachfront towns, which were flooded over 90 % in hours, as नौकाएँ और कसीनो barges rammed इमारतें, pushing गाड़ियाँ और घरों अंतर्देशीय, साथ waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are considered the worst civil engineering disaster in U.S. history and prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
जिम्मेदारी लिये the असफलताओं और flooding was laid squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge Stanwood Duval, U.S. District Court, but the federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal, state and local governments, resulting in the resignation of Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown, and of New Orleans पुलिस विभाग ( nopd ) अधीक्षक Eddie Compass.
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ), National Hurricane Center ( NHC ), और नेशनल मौसम Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions.
They provided सटीक hurricane weather tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time.
Even the most insistent appeals from national, state and local public officials to residents to evacuate before the storm did not warn that the levees could breach and fail.
U.S. debt from 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' and black लाइनों indicate the कुल national debt or gross public debt.
The अंतर is the `` intragovernmental debt, '' which includes obligations to government programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a सूत्र, National Debt = Debt held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt.
The second panel shows the two debt figures as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar मान of U.S. economic production for that year ).
The top panel is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars.
The United States public debt is the money borrowed by the संघीय सरकारी of the United States through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal government agencies.
US पब्लिक कर्ज़ consists of two components:
Debt held by the public includes Treasury securities held by investors outside the federal government, including that held by individuals, corporations, the संघीय आरक्षित प्रणाली और विदेशी, state and local governments.
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the federal government that are owed to program beneficiaries, such as the Social Security Trust Fund.
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses, including interest earnings, of these accounts that have been invested in Treasury प्रतिभूति.
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual एकीकृत बजट deficit or surplus.
The federal government budget deficit or surplus is the difference between सरकारी रसीदें और बिता, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, some spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
Historically, the US पब्लिक कर्ज़ as a share of GDP increased during wars and recessions, and subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the public as a share of GDP peaked just after World War II ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ), but then fell over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, large budget deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term स्थिरता of the federal government 's fiscal policies.
On 2 April 2013, debt held by the पब्लिक थी लगभग $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion, giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign निवेशकों, the largest of जिससे यहूद the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In basketball, an assist is attributed to a player जो गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a way that leads to a score by field goal, meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some judgment involved in deciding whether a passer चाहिए be credited with an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the player who receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball.
However, the original definition of an assist did not include such situations, so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass directly पहले the स्कोर may be गिने as an assist, so no more than one assist can be recorded per field goal ( unlike in other sports, such as ice hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the NBA, लकिन करता in fiba play ( only one assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ), as their role is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to get fewer assists, but centers with good floor presence and court vision can dominate a टोली by assisting.
Being inside the key, the center often has the best angles और the बेहतरीन स्थिति for `` dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area.
Center wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists in 1968.
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess, such as former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon, can also be an effective assistor because the defense 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters.
The NBA single-game assist record is 30, held by Scott Skiles of the Orlando Magic against the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record for most करियर assists is held by John Stockton with 15,806.
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, when discussing property taxes in the United States, or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract ईकाई of करेंसी प्रयुक्त sometimes in accounting.
In the United राज्य, it is a notional ईकाई समतुल्य to of a United States dollar ( a tenth of a cent ).
In the United Kingdom it was proposed during the decades of discussion on the decimalization of the पाउंड as a प्रभाग of the पाउंड स्टर्लिंग.
Several other currencies used the mill, such as the maltese लीरा.
The term comes from the Latin `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth भाग ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a series of विरोध between the हख़ामनी साम्राज्य of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC.
The collision between the fractious political world of the Greeks and the enormous empire of the फारसियों began जब सायरस the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC.
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia, the Persians appointed tyrants to नियम प्रत्येक of उन्हें.
This would prove to be the source of much trouble for the Greeks and फारसियों alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos, with Persian support ; however, the expedition was a debacle and, pre-empting his dismissal, Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians.
This was the शुरूआत of the आयोनियन विद्रोह, which would last until 493 BC, progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the conflict.
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria, and in 498 BC these forces helped to कैप्चर and burn the Persian regional capital of Sardis.
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed to have revenge on एथेंस और eretria for this act.
The revolt continued, साथ the दो पहलू effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
In 494 BC, the Persians regrouped, and attacked the epicentre of the विद्रोह in Miletus.
At the Battle of Lade, the Ionians suffered a decisive शिकस्त, और the विद्रोह collapsed, with the final members being stamped out the following year.
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the हस्तक्षेप of the मेनलैंड यूनानियों, दारा embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC, with the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign.
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece, this time across the Aegean Sea, under the command of Datis and artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades, before besieging, capturing and razing eretria.
However, while en route to attack Athens, the Persian फ़ोर्स थी decisively पराजित by the athenians at the Battle of Marathon, ending Persian efforts for the time being.
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of Greece, but died in 486 BC and जिम्मेदारी लिये the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second Persian invasion of Greece with one of the largest ancient armies ever assembled.
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by स्पार्टा and Athens ) at the Battle of Thermopylae allowed the Persians to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece.
However, while seeking to नष्ट the combined Greek fleet, the Persians suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
The following year, the confederated Greeks went on the offensive, defeating the Persian army at the Battle of plataea, और समाप्ति the आक्रमण of Greece.
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle of Mycale, पहले expelling पारसी garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states इससे the spartans, और the anti-persian गठबंधन was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next three decades, beginning with the expulsion of the बाकी पारसी garrisons from Europe.
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC, the League won a double victory that आखिरकार secured freedom for the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 bc ) resulted in a disastrous defeat, and further campaigning was suspended.
A बेड़े थी भेजा to साइप्रस in 451 BC, but achieved little, and when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end.
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities थी चिह्नित by a peace treaty between Athens and Persia, the so-called Peace of Callias.
hooverville near Portland, Oregon
A `` hooverville '' is the लोकप्रिय नाम for shanty towns built by homeless people during the Great Depression.
They were named after Herbert Hoover, जो थी अध्यक्ष of the United States during the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it.
The term was coined by चार्ल्स माइकेल्सन, publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee.
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers.
After a season on the practice squad and two सीज़न बैकिंग up Brett Favre, he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection.
Following ten सीज़न with the Seahawks, Hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract साथ the इंडियानापोलिस Colts in 2013 less than 24 hours after being released by the Tennessee Titans.
ICT is inevitably सम्बन्धित to the computer network.
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( it ), लकिन is a अधिक विशिष्ट पद कि stresses the role of unified communications and the integration of telecommunications ( telephone lines and wireless signals ), computers as well as necessary enterprise software, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable users to access, store, transmit, and manipulate information.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, but it became popular after it was used in a report to the UK government by Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum for England, Wales और उत्तरी आयरलैंड in 2000.
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the अभिसरण of audio-visual and telephone networks with computer networks through a single cabling or link system.
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, भवन प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ the कंप्यूटर संजाल प्रणाली using a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली of cabling, सिग्नल distribution and management.
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a shorter form of information और संचार ( s ) प्रौद्योगिकी.
In fact infocommunications is the विस्तार of दूरसंचार with information processing and content handling functions on a common digital technology base.
For a तुलना of these and other terms, see.
For ICT विकास अनुक्रमणिका around the world, see.
This is a list of वर्ण from George Lopez.
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the अणु ; in thomson 's mathematical model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic structure involves a घना केंद्रक घिरी by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson, who खोजा the इलेक्ट्रॉन in 1897, was proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In this model, the atom is composed of electrons ( which Thomson still called `` corpuscles '', though G. J. Stoney had proposed that atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative आरोप, जैसे negatively चार्ज `` plums `` घिरी by positively charged `` pudding ``.
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom, but with many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons, particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ).
Instead of a soup, the अणु थी भी sometimes said to have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge.
With this model, Thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least part of the atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles, although the rest of the positively चार्ज part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 gold foil प्रयोग of hans geiger and Ernest Marsden.
This was interpreted by Ernest रदरफोर्ड in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high positive charge ( in the मामला of सुनहरा, पर्याप्त to संतुलन about 100 electrons ), thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom.
Although gold has an atomic number of 79, immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the सहज सुझाव कि परमाणु क्रमांक is नाभिकीय charge.
The matter required प्रयोग to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) कि the प्रभावी नाभिकीय charge was very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference ), and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year, in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells.
Bohr had also inspired moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model was compared ( though not by Thomson ) to a British dessert called plum pudding, hence the name.
thomson 's पेपर थी प्रकाशित in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine, the leading British science journal of the day.
in thomson 's दृश्य :... the अणु of the तत्व consist of a क्रमांक of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला of वर्दी धनात्मक electrification,...
In this model, the electrons were free to rotate within the blob or बादल of positive substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron moved farther from the center of the positive cloud, it felt a larger जाल धनात्मक inward फ़ोर्स, क्युकी there was more material of opposite charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
In Thomson 's model, electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, and spectra were to be accounted for by energy मतभेद of अलग रिंग orbits.
Thomson attempted to make his model account for some of the major spectral lines ज्ञात लिये कुछ elements, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons, also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ), were earlier harbingers of the बाद और अधिक कामयाब solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
Typical strip of बेकन.
Bacon is a cured मांस prepared from a pig.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry packing ; the result is fresh bacon ( also known as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months in ठंडा एयर, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh and dried bacon is typically पकाया before eating.
Boiled bacon is ready to eat, as is some smoked bacon, but may be cooked further पहले eating.
Bacon is prepared इससे several different cuts of meat.
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork, except in the United States, where it is almost always prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` वसीय '', or `` अमरीकी स्टाइल '' outside of the US and Canada ).
The side cut रै more meat and less fat than the belly.
Bacon may be prepared from either of दो पृथक वापस कटौती : fatback, which is almost pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
Bacon-cured पोर्क loin is known as back bacon.
uncooked pork belly bacon strips.
Bacon may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or grilled, or used as a minor ingredient to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, विशेषकर game, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The word is derived from the Old High German bacho, meaning `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` side of bacon '', and cognate with the Old French bacon.
In महाद्वीपीय Europe, this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient, valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor.
In Italy, this is called pancetta and is usually cooked in small cubes or served uncooked and thinly sliced as part of an antipasto.
Meat from other animals, such as beef, lamb, chicken, goat, or turkey, may also be cut, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble bacon, and may even be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such use is common in areas with significant यहूदी और मुस्लिम populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured पेट of a स्वाइन carcass '' ; अन्य cuts and characteristics must be separately qualified ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ).
लिये सुरक्षा, बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating, freezing, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is विशिष्ट इससे salt pork and ham by differences in the brine ( or dry packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably sodium nitrite, and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color.
Flavorings such as brown sugar or मेपल हैं used for some products.
if प्रयुक्त, sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried.
Today, a brine for ham, but not bacon, includes a large amount of शुगर.
Historically, `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to different cuts of meat that were brined or packed identically, प्रायः साथ in the same barrel.
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) (, codified in part at ) is a federal law which establishes minimum standards लिये पेंशन योजनाएँ in निजी उद्योग और provides लिये extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans.
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of कर्मचारी लाभ plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial और अन्य information concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
Providing for appropriate remedies and access to the संघीय न्यायालयों.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee benefit plans, which are मिला मुख्यतः in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself.
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of Labor, the Department of the Treasury ( particularly the आतंरिक आय सेवा ), और the पेंशन लाभ guaranty Corporation.
Illegal immigration to the संयुक्त राज्य is the अधिनियम of foreign nationals entering the United States, without government permission and in violation of United States nationality law, or staying beyond the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A warning sign at the international boundary between the United राज्य and Canada in Point Roberts, Washington.
A much different दृष्टिकोण at the U.S.-Mexico border near El Paso, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the Center for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million people, down from 12.5 million people in 2007.
अन्य estimates दायरा from 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report, 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from अन्य लैटिन अमरीकी देशों ; 13 % यहूद इससे एशिया ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent School District is a स्कूल ज़िला आधारित in एल्विन, Texas ( USA ).
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school district south of Houston in the communities of Alvin, Manvel, Pearland, Hillcrest, Rosharon, Iowa Colony, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
aisd serves pearland नगर 's rapidly growing western portion of the city including the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek Ranch, South Fork, and Southern Trails.
एल्विन isd covers of land.
In human anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a nerve which रनों निकट the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral स्नायु of elbow joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human body ( meaning unprotected by muscle or bone ), so injury is common.
This nerve is directly connected to the little finger, and the adjacent half of the ring finger, supplying the palmar पक्ष of ये fingers, including both front and back of the tips, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One method of injuring the nerve is to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone and the overlying skin at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's `` मजेदार अस्थि ''.
This name is thought to be a pun, based on the ध्वनि resemblance between the name of the bone of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous ``.
Alternatively, according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar सनसनी अनुभवी when it is struck ''.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a fictional British school of magic for students aged eleven to eighteen, and is the primary setting for the पहला six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ), which she had seen at Kew Gardens some time before writing the series, although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th best Scottish educational establishment in a 2008 online ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's loretto School.
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network rankings, it थी added to the स्कूलों लिस्टिंग `` for fun '' and was then voted on.
The U.S. subprime mortgage संकट थी a नियत of कार्यक्रम और conditions that led to a financial crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008.
It was characterized by a rise in subprime mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures, and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008, with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and उपभोक्ता और the onset of a severe global recession.
There were many causes of the संकट, साथ टीकाकारों assigning different levels of blame to financial institutions, regulators, credit agencies, government housing policies, and consumers, among others.
A proximate कारण was the rise in subprime lending.
The प्रतिशत of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006, with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S.
A ऊँची प्रतिशत of ये subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 लिये उदाहरण, यहूद adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two changes were part of a broader trend of lowered lending मानकों और higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly indebted, with the ratio of debt to disposable personal आय उठती from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' क्षमता to पुनर्वित्त their loans became more difficult.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest दरों ( causing higher monthly payments ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, including subprime mortgages, widely आयोजित by वित्तीय firms globally, lost most of their value.
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed कर्ज़ और अन्य प्रतिभूति as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit and वित्तीय बाज़ार led to tightening क्रेडिट around the world and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe.
The crisis had severe, long-lasting consequences लिये the u.S. and European economies.
The U.S. entered a deep recession, with nearly 9 लाख jobs lost during 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30 % on average and the u.S. भण्डार मार्केट fell approximately 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained near their low point and unemployment remained elevated.
Economic growth remained below pre-crisis levels.
Europe also continued to struggle with its own economic संकट.
Carl Jung in 1910.
Myers and briggs extrapolated उनके MBTI theory from Jung 's writings in his book Psychological Types.
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) मूल्यांकन is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung and first published in his 1921 book मनोवैज्ञानिक Types ( English edition, 1923 ).
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological कृत्यों by जिससे we अनुभव the world : sensation, intuition, feeling, and thinking.
One of these four functions is dominant most of the time.
The original developers of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद katharine कुक briggs और उसके बेटी, इसाबेल briggs मायर्स ; ये दो, having पढ़ाई extensively the कार्य of जंग, turned उनके ब्याज of इंसान बर्ताव into a भक्ति of turning the सिद्धान्त of मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रकार to व्यावहारिक उपयोग.
They began creating the indicator during World War II, believing कि a ज्ञान of personality preferences would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective ''.
The initial प्रश्नावली grew into the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, which was first published in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring differences.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis saccuzzo मानना `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences in the way we construe our experiences, and these preferences underlie our interests, needs, values, and motivation '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from her second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15, 2011, four days ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and redone, `` यहूदा '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the पास्ट, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single was designed by गागा in microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced ट्रैक्स, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन distinct hooks and a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे redemption, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales खोलने, but was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets, and also reached the top of the चार्ट in दक्षिण Korea.
A music वीडियो for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The video portrays them as modern day missionaries going to जेरूसलम.
It शामिल the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus, and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its release, the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा लिये the कथित use of religious imagery and her role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the video, नहीं ढूंढना कोई offensive content.
The video was nominated लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a क्रमांक of television shows, including The Graham Norton Show, Saturday Night Live, Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr., was an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It through the grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums कया 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres ऐसे as शांत तूफ़ान and neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the जल्दी 1980s, gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions, including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award और the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion चित्र Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working in the motion picture industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for.
Best Picture is considered the most important of the अकादमी Awards, as it represents all the directing, acting, music composing, writing, editing and other efforts put forth into a film.
Consequently, Best Picture is the final award and the conclusion of the annual अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremony.
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002, showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago.
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively लिये the प्लेस्टेशन 3.
The game is लिखा और directed by Quantic Dream 's founder and CEO David Cage.
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled बाद फिल्मी noir, featuring चार protagonists involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim, while investigative journalist Madison Paige, FBI profiler Norman Jayden, and private detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on स्क्रीन सम्बन्धित to motions on the नियंत्रक, and in some cases, performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences.
The खिलाड़ी 's निर्णय और actions during the game will affect the narrative.
The main वर्ण can be मारे, and certain actions may lead to different scenes and endings.
A playable डेमो थी released on 11 February 2010.
The demo was released prior to this तिथि for people who took part in a Four Day Challenge on 5 February 2010.
A patch to allow use of the PlayStation Move controller to play the game थी released in सितंबर 2010.
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed and has sold over two million copies.
it जीती 2010 's खेल of the साल इससे सीएनएन और गेमिंग संघ, और बेहतरीन ps3 खेल of 2010 by gamespy और ign.
A modified version of the खेल थी released titled Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in France, aimed towards a younger audience.
In 2010, the game was included in the book 1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation उद्योग liabilities : members funds and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988.
सालाना कुल superannuation industry asset growth 1996-2005.
superannuation in ऑस्ट्रेलिया refers to the इंतजाम जिससे लोगों मेक in ऑस्ट्रेलिया to have निधि उपलब्धियाँ लिये उन्हें in retirement.
In Australia, superannuation arrangements are government-supported और प्रोत्साहित, and minimum provisions are compulsory for employees.
For example, employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries and wages ( currently 9 % ) into a superannuation fund, but people are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation.
The minimum obligation required by employers is set to increase to 12 % धीरे stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( पर्यवेक्षण ) regulations 1994.
This is a list of the characters from the American comedy-drama टेलीविज़न series The Game.
Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 u.S. presidential election.
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 states and the District of कोलंबिया ( denoted in ब्लू ) to capture 332 electoral votes.
पूर्व राज्यपाल mitt romney ( r - ma ) जीती the popular vote in 24 states ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 electoral votes.
Cartogram representation of the चुनावी कॉलेज vote for the 2012 election, with each square representing one electoral vote.
The संयुक्त राज्य चुनावी College is the institution that officially elects the President and Vice President of the United States every four years.
The President and Vice President are not elected directly by the मतदाता.
Instead, they are elected by `` electors '' who are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors are apportioned to each state and the District of Columbia, but not to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of निर्वाचक in प्रत्येक राज्य is equal to the number of members of Congress to which the state is entitled.
The Twenty-third Amendment has सदा resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors.
There are 538 electors, based on there being 435 representatives and 100 senators, प्लस the three electors from the District of Columbia.
Electors are pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential उम्मीदवार, हालांकि unpledged निर्वाचक are possible.
In all states, मगर maine and Nebraska, electors are elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
That is, all electors pledged to the अध्यक्षीय candidate who wins the most votes in a state become electors for that state.
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '', selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote.
Although no elector is required by federal law to honor a pledge, there have only been very few occasions जब an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected and requires each elector to cast one vote for अध्यक्ष और another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue that the Electoral College is inherently undemocratic और देता झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन influence in electing the President and Vice President.
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the अध्यक्ष to the छोटी states, as the minimum number of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all method of मतदान favors the larger states.
A number of constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking to alter the Electoral College or replace it with a direct popular vote.
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और current President of the United States, the first African American to hold the office.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a ग्रैजुएट of कोलंबिया University and Harvard Law School, where he was president of the Harvard Law Review.
He was a community organizer in Chicago पहले कमाई his law degree.
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004, running unsuccessfully for the United States House of प्रतिनिधि in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received नेशनल ध्यान दौरान उसके अभियान to represent इलिनोइस in the United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary, his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July, and his election to the Senate in November.
He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी primaries to प्राप्त the presidential nomination.
He then defeated रिपब्लिकन nominee John McCain in the general election, and was inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009.
Nine months बाद, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney, and was sworn in लिये a second term on January 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care अधिनियम, प्रायः referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
In May 2012, he became the first sitting U.S. president to सरेआम support same-sex marriage and in 2013 his administration filed briefs which urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop levels in Afghanistan, signed the New START arms control treaty with Russia, ordered U.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in लीबिया, and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
The होंडा cbr1100xx Super Blackbird was a Honda motorcycle made from 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to challenge the कावासाकी निंजा zx-11 as the world 's fastest production motorcycle, and Honda succeeded with a top speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the Suzuki Hayabusa, which reached.
The Blackbird is named after the Lockheed SR-71, also a speed record होल्डर.
नमूना दृश्य of an electronic health record based on images
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about व्यक्तिगत patients or populations.
It is a रिकार्ड in डिजिटल स्वरूप that is theoretically capable of being shared across different health care settings.
In कुछ मामले this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization status, प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम, radiology बिंब, vital signs, personal stats like age and weight, and billing information.
The Mariner up on the mast in a storm.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by gustave Doré.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest major poem by the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern संस्करण उपयोग a बाद संशोधित version printed in 1817 that featured a gloss.
Along with other poems in गीतात्मक ballads, it was a signal shift to modern poetry and the beginning of British Romantic literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers and other user agents can automatically choose the appropriate proxy server ( अभिगम method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a JavaScript function “FindProxyForURL ( url, host ) ”.
This function returns a string साथ एक or more access method specifications.
These specifications cause the user agent to use a particular प्रॉक्सी सर्वर or to कनेक्ट directly.
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back when a proxy fails to respond.
The browser fetches इस pac file before requesting other URLs.
The URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or determined automatically by the वेब प्रॉक्सी autodiscovery Protocol.
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as Zendaya, is an American actress, singer and dancer.
she stars on the Disney Channel sitcom Shake It Up as रॉकी ब्लू.
She has starred in two films and निभाई एक of the lead roles in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced फर्न in the Pixie Hollow Games.
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as रॉकी ब्लू और in a शुभ लक चार्ली और Shake It Up crossover title Charlie Shake It Up.
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` Walk The Prank '' and on A.N.T. Farm as sequoia जोन्स in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
Zendaya is भी a musician.
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8, 2012 and started recording songs for her debut album on August 12, 2012.
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out `` and another single with Bella Thorne called `` देखें Me, '' which is featured on the Break It Down album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album together called Shake It Up : Live 2 Dance, each have their own सोंग on it, साथ साथ a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On August 21, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an ep पुकारा Shake It Up : Made In Japan.
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake, '' which is on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist CD, which was released on अक्तूबर 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released, entitled i < 3 नृत्य ; on it, Zendaya has two songs with Bella - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well as one solo song, `` Beat of My Drum. ''
इस is a सूची of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state ), grouped by type and sorted by location.
It contains all public-use and military airports in the राज्य.
Some private-use and former airports may be included where notable, such as airports that were previously public-use, those साथ वाणिज्यिक enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code.
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc. Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms, it has been extended to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's Android, Apple does not license iOS for संस्थापना on non-Apple hardware.
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS applications, जिससे have collectively been downloaded more than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile operating प्रणाली इकाई shipped in the चौथी quarter of 2012, behind only Google 's Android.
in जून 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile web data consumption ( including use on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ).
At the half of 2012, there were 410 million devices activated.
According to the special media event held by Apple on सितंबर 12, 2012, 400 लाख डिवाइस have been sold through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the concept of direct हेरफेर, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface control elements consist of sliders, switches, और buttons.
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe, tap, पिंच, और रिवर्स pinch, all of which have specific definitions within the context of the iOS operating system and its multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers are प्रयुक्त by कुछ अनुप्रयोग to respond to shaking the device ( one common result is the undo command ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ).
iOS is निकला इससे os X, with which it shares the Darwin foundation.
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X operating system used on ठहराना कंप्यूटर.
In iOS, there are four abstraction layers : the Core OS layer, the कोर सेवाएं परत, the मीडिया परत, और the cocoa Touch layer.
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's flash memory for the system partition, using roughly 800 mb of कि partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself.
आईओएस फिलहाल रनों on iphone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple TV.
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its अत्यधिक high rear wing.
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1 with its large wings at pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic यंत्र जिनकी intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air movement across a body of a vehicle in motion, usually described as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams, because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the amount of air flowing underneath the गाडी जिससे generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
विघ्न हैं प्रायः fitted to रेस and high-performance sports cars, although they have become common on passenger vehicles as well.
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for styling purposes and have either little aerodynamic benefit or even make the aerodynamics worse.
विघ्न लिये गाड़ियाँ are often incorrectly confused with, or the term used interchangeably with, wings.
Automotive विंग्स are devices whose intended design is to generate downforce as air passes around them, not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as Nintendo 's mascot, is a fictional अक्षर created by game designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of video games where the character Mario plays a part, either as the protagonist, antagonist, supporting अक्षर, as भाग of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game within a game.
It does not include simple references to the character, such as the portraits of Mario found in The Legend of zelda : a कड़ी to the Past.
The year indicated is the year the खेल थी पहला released, सबसे commonly in जापानी ; games were sometimes released years later in other regions of the world.
The list includes ports, remakes and compilations.
It does n't include any आभासी Console re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a traditional अमरीकी लोक सोंग पहला recorded by Dick Burnett, a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky.
The song was originally recorded by burnett as `` विदाई सोंग '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An early version was recorded by Emry Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public interest in the song was renewed after the release of the 2000 फिल्मी O Brother, Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central role in the फिल्मी 's plot.
The song was also शामिल in the film 's highly successful, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
Josephson जंक्शन सरणी chip developed by the National Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for electric potential ( voltage ), electric potential difference, and विद्युतवाहक force.
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ), who invented the voltaic pile, possibly the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead in Sarajevo, by Gavrilo Princip, एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The हत्यारे ' motives यहूद सतत with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia.
Serbian military officers stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian सैन्य Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key सर्बियाई सैन्य conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those जो were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations आता इससे ये दो ट्रायल and related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध I one month later.
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a स्पेनी मिशन in Southern California, located in present-day San Juan Capistrano.
It was founded on सब संतो ' Day November 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th century theologian and `` warrior priest '' who resided in the Abruzzo region of Italy, San Juan Capistrano रै the भेद of होने घर to the oldest भवन in California still in use, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and `` Father Serra 's Church, '' it is the तभी extant structure where it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass.
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one of the few missions to have actually been founded twice—others being मिशन San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ).
The site was originally consecrated on अक्तूबर 30, 1775, by Father Fermín Lasuén, but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The कामयाबी of the उपनिवेश is evident in its historical records.
Prior to the arrival of the missionaries, some 550 natives were बिखरे throughout the local area.
By 1790, the number of converted Christians had grown to 700, and just six years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone, out of the total 4,639 souls परिवर्तित between 1776 और 1847.
अधिक than 2,000 पूर्व निवासियों ( ज़्यादातर juaneño इंडियंस ) हैं दफ्न in unmarked क़ब्रों in the मिशन 's कब्रिस्तान ( campo सेंटो ).
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) st. जॉन o'sullivan, जो पहचाना the प्रॉपर्टी 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property, and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt.
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José Barona, Vicente Fustér, and Vicente Pascual Oliva are सब entombed beneath the अभयारण्य मंजिल.
The Criolla or `` Mission अंगूर, '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery.
The Mission entered a long period of gradual decline after secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts were made over the years to restore the Mission to its former glory, but none met with great success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, and `` Serra 's Chapel '' is स्टिल प्रयुक्त for religious services.
About half-a-million visitors, सहित 80,000 school children, come to the Mission each year.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder, the Mission is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ).
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite subject for many notable artists, and has been immortalized in literature and on film numerous times, perhaps more than any other mission.
In 1984, a modern church complex was constructed just north and west of the मिशन यौगिक and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a संग्रहालय, साथ the सेरा चैपल भीतर the compound serving as a chapel for the mission parish.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 American teen romantic comedy film starring John Cusack and written and directed by जंगली स्टीव हॉलैंड.
It tells the story of high स्कूल छात्र लेन myer जो is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally louisiana superdome और commonly the superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium, located in the Central Business District of New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the New ऑरलियन्स modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its स्टील frame covers a expanse.
Its dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed frame and has a व्यास of, बनाना it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA ), the State फार्म bayou क्लासिक, the r+l वाहक New Orleans Bowl, the Allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the संयुक्त राज्य, the superdome routinely makes the `` छोटी सूची '' of उम्मीदवार being considered for major sporting events, such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four.
In 2005, the Superdome gained international attention of a different type when it housed thousands of people seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina.
The building suffered extensive damage as a result of the storm, and was closed for many months afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it was announced that German automaker mercedes-benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The new name took effect on अक्तूबर 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from mercedes-benz ( और पहला in the संयुक्त राज्य ), बाद the mercedes-benz Arena, the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart, in Stuttgart, Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, China.
Lobby of जम्बो हाउस
Giraffe on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed deluxe resort at the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी संसार Resort.
it खोली on April 16, 2001.
the रिज़ॉर्ट is स्वामित्व and operated by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts.
Disney 's Animal किंगडम आवास is located in the Animal Kingdom Resort Area, adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom.
It gives guests the अवसर to दृश्य चरने वन्यजीव बाहर उनके rooms and public areas in the resort within proximity of the animals, conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna.
The People 's Party, also known as the `` populists '', थी a short-lived political party in the United States established in 1891 during the Populist movement ( United States, 19th Century ).
it थी सबसे महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96, और तब rapidly धुंधली दूर.
Based among poor, white cotton farmers in the South ( especially उत्तर कैरोलिना, अलबामा, और टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ), it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions, और in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed their presidential nominee, William Jennings Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` are commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist appeals in विपक्ष to established interests and mainstream parties.
Linguistic map of Nigeria, कैमरून, and Benin.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, outside the University of Lagos
There हैं सैंकड़ों of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The major languages are Yoruba, Hausa, इग्बो, ईदो, fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial language, was chosen to facilitate the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite, and is not widely बोला in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, और niger–congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an भी वृहद diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
a श्रेणी of कार्यक्रम led to the attack on Pearl Harbor.
युद्ध between जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य था महरूम a सम्भावना कि प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित लिये चूंकि the 1920s, हालांकि रियल टेंशन किया नहीं शुरू जबतक the 1931 आक्रमण of मंचूरिया by जापानी.
Over the next decade, Japan expanded slowly into China, leading to all out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo all imports into China, including war supplies purchased from the U.S.
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports, leading the इम्पीरियल जापानी Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies.
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` दक्षिणी संसाधन क्षेत्रफल '' to add it to the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific.
The Philippine islands, at that time an American territory, were also a जापानी target.
The Japanese military concluded that an invasion of the Philippines would provoke an American military response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait for the inevitable US counterattack, Japan 's military leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive पर्ल हार्बर आक्रमण, जिससे वे assumed would negate the American forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands.
Planning for the attack had begun in very early 1941, by Admiral isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally won assent from the Naval High Command by, among other things, threatening to resign.
The attack was approved in the summer at an Imperial Conference and again at a second सम्मेलन in the पतन.
Simultaneously over the year, pilots were trained, and ships prepared for its execution.
Authority for the attack was granted at the दूसरी इम्पीरियल Conference if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was not reached.
After final approval by सम्राट हिरोहितो the order to attack was issued at the beginning of December.
A common office stapler
A common school stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins चादरें of पेपर or समान material by driving a thin metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely प्रयुक्त in government, business, offices, homes and schools.
The word `` stapler '' can actually refer to a क्रमांक of अलग devices of varying uses.
In addition to joining paper sheets together, staplers can भी be used in a surgical setting to join tissue together with surgical staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, most staplers are used to join अनेक sheets of paper.
Paper staplers आइये in two distinct types : manual and electric.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, although मॉडल कि हैं प्रयुक्त while set on a desk or other surface are not uncommon.
Electric staplers मौजूद in a variety of different designs and models.
Their primary ऑपरेटिंग function is to join large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
Some electric staplers can join up to 20 sheets at a time.
Swallowing, known scientifically as deglutition, is the process in the human or animal body that makes something pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, and into the esophagus, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails और the ऑब्जेक्ट goes through the trachea, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the human body it is नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of Pennsylvania, was a leader of the Radical रिपब्लिकन गुट of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी and a fierce opponent of slavery.
He was one of the most influential members in the history of Congress.
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, Stevens, a witty, sarcastic speaker and flamboyant पार्टी नेता, वर्चस्व the हाउस from 1861 until his death.
He wrote much of the वित्तीय legislation that paid for the American Civil War.
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the prime leaders of the Radical Republicans दौरान the युद्ध और Reconstruction era.
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply चूंकि उसके मौत as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed.
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism, depicting Stevens as a villain for his वकालत of हर्ष उपायों in the दक्षिण ऐसे as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This अत्यधिक negative characterization held sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the freedmen दौरान पुनर्निर्माण, the तभी member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
Overview of the अनुवाद of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA and the synthesis of प्रोटीन by a राइबोसोम
In molecular biology and genetics, translation is the process through which सेल्यूलर ribosomes manufacture प्रोटीन.
It is part of the प्रक्रम of gene expression.
In translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide, that will later fold into an active protein.
In bacteria, translation occurs in the कोशिका 's कोशिकाद्रव्य, जहाँ the large and small subunits of the ribosome are located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, translation occurs across the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a प्रक्रम पुकारा vectorial संश्लेषण.
The ribosome facilitates डिकोडिंग by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to that of the mRNA.
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the mRNA passes through and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock टिकर and ticker tape.
In many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer membrane of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum and releases the nascent protein polypeptide inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, such as ट्रांसफ़र RNA, ribosomal RNA, and small nuclear RNA, do not undergo translation into proteins.
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation, elongation, translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain, or polypeptide that is the उत्पाद of अनुवाद ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes and समवेत into प्रोटीन.
In activation, the correct amino acid is covalently bonded to the सही ट्रांसफ़र RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino एसिड is joined by its carboxyl group to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond.
When the tRNA has an amino एसिड linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the small subunit of the राइबोसोम बाइंडिंग to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens जब the a site of the ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA, UAG, or UGA ).
No tRNA can recognize or bind to इस codon.
Instead, the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the संपूर्ण ribosome/mrna जटिल.
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; ये शामिल anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, and puromycin, among others.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes, and thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
A मल्टीमीडिया message on a mobile phone.
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a मानक way to send messages that include multimedia content to and from mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability that allowed exchange of text messages तभी up to 160 characters in length.
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets, although it is also popular as a method of delivering news and entertainment content including videos, pictures, text pages and ringtones.
The मानक is विकसित by the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ), although during development it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an infectious disease अद्वितीय to इंसानो, caused by either of two virus variants, Variola major and Variola minor.
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera, derived from varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' थी first used in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on 26 अक्तूबर 1977.
Smallpox localized in small blood बरतन of the skin and in the mouth and throat.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash and, later, raised fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a अधिक serious disease and has an overall mortality rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also ज्ञात as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims.
Long-term complications of V. major संक्रमण शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring, and limb deformities due to arthritis and osteomyelitis are less common complications, seen in about 2–5 % of cases.
smallpox is believed to have उभरा in human populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the pustular rash on the mummified देह of pharaoh ramses V of Egypt.
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually during the closing years of the 18th सदी ( सहित पाँच reigning monarchs ), और was responsible for a third of all blindness.
Of all those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the disease.
Smallpox was जिम्मेदार for an estimated 300–500 million deaths during the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) अनुमानित that 15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th और 20th सदियां, the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
smallpox is एक of दो संक्रामक रोगों to have been eradicated, the other being rinderpest, which was declared eradicated in 2011.
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song by the English rock band the बीटल्स.
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, and recorded in October 1963, it थी the first Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment.
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the British record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You ``, the Beatles ' previous UK single, which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group.
लेने two weeks to dislodge its predecessor, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' stayed at number one for five weeks and remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks in total.
It was also the group 's first American number one, entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the अमरीकी म्यूज़िक उद्योग.
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for सात सप्ताह — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '', a reverse scenario of what had occurred in Britain, and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks.
`` I Want to Hold Your हाथ '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single worldwide.
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त States in the late 1950s and continued until the early 1970s.
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an स्वतंत्र सामने बर्खास्तगी ), हालांकि a उठाया भण्डार सामने बर्खास्तगी is common as well.
Common weight reduction techniques include fiberglass देह panels, stripped इंटीरियर्स and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
क्युकी वे यहूद primarily निर्मित लिये रेसिंग, ये गाड़ियाँ typically था the इंजन swapped to a larger or अधिक शक्तिशाली एक, the मौजूदा भण्डार इंजन परिवर्धित ( प्रायः heavily ) or दोनो.
It was बहुत आम to अनुरूप a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection, such as one from Algon, Hilborn, or Crower.
With form being dictated by function, their रूप is प्रायः बहुत शीर्ष भारी और ungainly, largely due to सामने ends being raised higher than stock, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ).
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the सामने फेंडर खूब is a आम characteristic of gassers, as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing क्लास, बल्कि than one using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the predecessor of the आधुनिक Funny Car.
Twelve-lead ईकेजी of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time, as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body.
The recording produced by this noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ).
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats, as खूब as the आकार और स्थिति of the कक्षों, the presence of any damage to the heart, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts, but may भी be performed on पशु, usually for diagnosis of heart abnormalities or research.
Donald John Trump, Sr. ( born June 14, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी कारोबार magnate, television personality and author.
He is the अध्यक्ष और अध्यक्ष of The Trump Organization and the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice have made him a well-known हस्ती who was No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the son of Fred Trump, a wealthy नई यॉर्क City real-estate developer.
He worked लिये उसके पिता 's कड़, Elizabeth Trump & Son, while attending the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was given control of the company in 1971 and renamed it The Trump संगठन.
In 2010, Trump expressed an ब्याज in बनने a प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States in the 2012 election, though in May 2011, he announced he would not be a candidate.
In December 2011, ट्रम्प was suggested as a possible vice presidential selection by Michele Bachmann, if she were to win the Republican nomination.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter sam cooke, लिखा और पहला अंकित in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964.
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in comparison with his previous singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the दशकों चूंकि its release, and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
geothermal उर्जा is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित in the धरती.
Thermal energy is the energy that determines the तापमान of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of खनिज ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its सतह, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), meaning earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the कोर to surrounding cooler rock.
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats rock and water in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal शक्ति is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed लिये ज़िला हीटिंग, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, लकिन रै historically महरूम सीमित to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources, especially for applications such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much lower per उर्जा ईकाई than those of चट्टान fuels.
As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's energy needs, लकिन तभी a बहुत छोटी भिन्न may be profitably शोषित.
Drilling and खोजी for deep resources is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience, the cost of generating geothermal शक्ति रै decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between two and ten सेंट per kwh.
Ownership of property may be private, collective, or common and the property may be वस्तुएँ, land/real estate, or intellectual property.
Determining ownership in law involves determining who has certain rights and duties over the प्रॉपर्टी.
These rights and duties, sometimes called a 'bundle of rights ', can be अलग and held by different parties.
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers, Plato और Aristotle, who held different opinions on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities, while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) विचार निजी प्रॉपर्टी सक्रिय लोगों to receive the full benefit of their labor.
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ त्रासदी of the commons ” problem, where people tend to degrade common property more than they do private property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for example, a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property, depending on his worldview, might be अधिक दिलचस्पी in short-term वित्तीय लाभ than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an नजर toward अन्य 's चिंताएं ( e.g., those of भविष्य generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership, he left open questions of ( 1 ) how to allocate property between what is private and common और ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society.
over the सहस्राब्दियों, और आरपार संस्कृतियों what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the foundations of ancient and modern societies such as money, व्यापार, कर्ज़, bankruptcy, the criminality of theft, and private vs. public property.
Ownership is the key भवन ब्लाक in the development of the capitalist socio-economic system.
Adam Smith stated that one of the sacred laws of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions.
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly complex : one can gain, transfer and lose स्वामित्व of प्रॉपर्टी in a number of ways.
To acquire property one can purchase it with money, trade it for अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, receive it as a gift, steal it, find it, make, it or homestead it.
एक can ट्रांसफ़र or lose ownership of property by selling it for money, exchanging it for other property, giving it as a gift, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in that the owner of any property will also own the economic लाभ of that property.
`` What 's My नाम ? '' is a song recorded by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna, for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the song was released as the second single from Loud on अक्तूबर 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The R & B song was produced by the नॉर्वेजियाई उत्पादन duo स्टारगेट, और थी लिखा by the duo along with Ester Dean, Traci Hale, and Drake.
Lyrically, it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse और romance.
Music critics gave the song positive reviews, citing it some of Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ; there was a तारीफ़ regarding its romantic nature, as well as its sexual tones.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, giving Rihanna her third number-one single in 2010, as खूब as उसके आठवीं overall on the चार्ट.
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and the United Kingdom and reached the top five in कनाडा, आयरलैंड, नई Zealand, Norway and Slovakia.
The song received a nomination at the 54th ग्रैमी Awards for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration.
An accompanying music video, निर्देशित by फिलिप andelman, portrays a रोमांटिक एनकाउंटर between Rihanna and Drake in a grocery store along with romantic scenes between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the Atlantic, including Saturday Night Live in America and the series seven finale of The X Factor in the United Kingdom.
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the देश 's मीडिया नियामक, Ofcom, for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit.
A mathematical constant is a special number, usually a real number, that is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
Constants arise in many different areas of mathematics, with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi| occurring in ऐसे विविध contexts as भूगोल, number theory and calculus.
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '', and what makes a constant `` interesting '', is ultimately a matter of taste, and some mathematical constants are notable more for historical reasons than लिये उनके intrinsic mathematical interest.
The more popular स्थिरांक have महरूम पढ़ाई throughout the ages and computed to many decimal places.
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually are also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant एक्सेप्शन ).
Elections to the United States Senate were held on November 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special चुनाव on जनवरी 19, 2010 in Massachusetts was held earlier in the year. )
thirty-four of the सीटे यहूद लिये six-year terms to the Senate 's `` class three '', and three were special elections for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) and 18 प्रदर्शित लाज़िम republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ).
After the previous elections ( in 2008 ), the United States Senate was composed of 58 Democrats, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents जो caucus साथ the डेमोक्रेट.
Republicans won four seats held by retiring डेमोक्रेट and Republicans defeated two incumbent Democrats.
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994 elections and also the पहला समय चूंकि कि चुनाव कि republicans successfully defended all of their own seats.
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to लाभ सीटे और the third consecutive mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican wins, however, the Democrats retained a majority of the Senate with 51 seats plus 2 independents who caucus with them, compared to the 47 republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches its highest or न्यूनतम excursion सापेक्ष to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere.
As a result, on the day of the solstice, the Sun appears to have reached its highest or lowest सालाना ऊँचाई in the आसमान ऊपर the क्षितिज at local solar noon.
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to stand still ), because at the solstices, the Sun stands still in declination ; that is, the मौसमी गति of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, are connected with the seasons.
In अनेक संस्कृतियों the solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer.
The term संक्रांति can also be used in a broader sense, as the date ( day ) when this occurs.
The day of the solstice is either the longest day of the साल ( in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest दिन of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
जेरी ली लुईस ( born सितंबर 29, 1935 ) is an American rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist.
He is known by the nickname `` The कातिल '' and is often viewed as “rock & roll 's first great wild man”.
An early pioneer of चट्टान और फेंकें म्यूज़िक, in 1956 Lewis made his first recordings at Sun Records.
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the दक्षिण, लकिन it थी उसके 1957 hit `` पूरे lotta shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed this in that same year when he recorded songs such as `` Great गेंदें of आग ``, `` breathless `` और `` ऊँची School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold more records than Elvis प्रेस्ली at this time.
However, Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in the wake of his विवाह to उसके यंग cousin.
He had little success in the charts following the scandal and his popularity quickly faded.
His live performance fees plummeted from $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
In the meantime he was determined to gain back some of his लोकप्रियता.
During the early 60’s he did n't have much chart success with few exceptions such as `` कया 'd i Say ``.
His live performances at this time were increasingly जंगली और energetic.
His album Live at the Star Club, Hamburg from 1964 is often regarded by many music journalists and fans as एक of the wildest और महानतम rock and roll concert albums ever.
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little success, in 1968 Lewis made a transition into country music and had हिट्स साथ गीतों such as `` Another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited his career and throughout the late '60s and '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts.
His # 1 देश हिट्स शामिल `` to मेक प्रेम मीठी For You ``, `` There Must Be More to Love Than This ``, `` Would You Take Another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the दशक और he embraced उसके चट्टान 'n ' फेंकें पास्ट साथ गीतों ऐसे as a कवर of the Big Bopper 's `` Chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``.
In the 21st सदी लुईस continues to tour to audiences around the world and still releases new albums.
One such album, titled Last Man Standing, is his best selling to date at over a million copies sold worldwide.
This was followed by Mean Old Man which has प्राप्त कुछ of the best sales of Lewis’s career.
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both rock and country, won several Grammy awards, including a Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार.
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986, and his pioneering contribution to the genre has महरूम पहचाना by the rockabilly हॉल of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the movie Great Balls of Fire, starring Dennis Quaid.
In 2003, Rolling स्टोन Magazine listed his box set All Killer, No Filler : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of all time ``.
In 2004, they ranked him number 24 on their सूची of the 100 महानतम Artists of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar Quartet and the क्लास of '55 एल्बम, जिससे भी शामिल Johnny Cash, Carl Perkins, Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry Louis Stephens, बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all segments of the Executive branch ( including the Army and Navy ) of the संयुक्त राज्य by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil War.
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as commander in chief of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां ; it थी नहीं a विधि passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever फ़्री, और ordered the फौज ( and all segments of the Executive branch ) to treat as free all those enslaved in ten states that were still in rebellion, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion, but as the army took control of Confederate regions, the slaves in those regions यहूद emancipated बल्कि than लौटे to their masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already been subdued were immediately emancipated, and over 3 million more were emancipated as the Union फौज उन्नत.
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave राज्य कि यहूद नहीं in विद्रोह, nor to सबसे regions already नियंत्रित by the Union army ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners, did not itself outlaw slavery, and did not make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens.
It made the eradication of slavery an explicit war goal, in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln था जारी a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed and issued January 1, 1863, took effect except in locations जहाँ the संघ था already mostly regained control.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war, angered some Northern Democrats, energized anti-slavery forces, and weakened शक्तियां in यूरोपीय कि wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the Southern and Northern States, and led to many slaves escaping their masters and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and Steve Shibuya.
It is Snyder 's पहला फिल्मी आधारित on an original script.
The film stars Emily ब्राउनिंग, abbie Cornish, Jena Malone, Vanessa Hudgens, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution, as वो makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy.
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX theatres in the United States at मध्यरात्रि on March 25, 2011.
It received generally ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ from critics, but was a moderate box office success.
Front and back of Canon PowerShot A95, a typical pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress V96C digital back, an example of a पेशेवर डिजिटल camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes video or still photographs by recording images on an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक चित्र sensor.
Most cameras बेची आज are digital, and digital cameras are incorporated into many devices ranging from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an optical system, typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device.
The diaphragm और शटर admit the correct amount of light to the imager, just as with film but the image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical.
however, नापसंद फिल्मी कैमरे, डिजिटल cameras can display images on a screen immediately after being recorded, and store and delete images from memory.
अनेक डिजिटल cameras can also record moving video with sound.
कुछ डिजिटल कैमरे can क्रॉप और सिलाई तस्वीरें और perform अन्य elementary चित्र संपादन.
The inside and front of a Dell PowerEdge web server, a computer designed लिये रैक mounting
Multiple web servers may be प्रयुक्त for a high traffic website, here four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application ) that helps to उद्धार वेब सामग्री कि can be पहुँचा through the अंतरजाल.
The most common use of वेब सर्वर is to मेजबान websites, but there are other uses such as gaming, data storage or running enterprise applications.
The American Red Cross ( ARC ), also known as the American National Red Cross, is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency assistance, disaster relief and education inside the United States.
It is the designated U.S. संबद्ध of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the American Red Cross offers services in five other areas : community services that help the needy ; communications services and comfort for military members and their family members ; the collection, processing and distribution of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness, health, and safety ; and international relief and development programs.
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code, Section 3001, the American नेशनल Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by community donations, income from health and safety training and products, and income from blood products.
The American Red Cross is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The अध्यक्ष of the फलक of राज्यपालों, serving her second three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current President and Chief Executive Officer is Gail J. McGovern.
A rooster in कोसोवो
A rooster, showing wattles, earlobes and comb
A मुर्गा crowing ( with audio )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a male gallinaceous bird.
It usually refers to a male chicken ( Gallus gallus ).
Immature male chickens less than one year old are called cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States, and the term is widely used throughout उत्तर अमेरिका, as well as Australia and New Zealand.
In the United किंगडम और आयरलैंड the older term `` cockerel '' is more commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name for a male of other species of bird, for example `` मुर्गा गौरैया ''.
`` roosting '' is the कार्रवाई of perching aloft to sleep at night, and is done by both sexes.
The rooster is polygamous, लकिन can नहीं guard several nests of eggs at once.
He guards the general area where his hens are nesting, and will attack अन्य roosters कि enter his territory.
During the daytime, he usually sits on a high पर्च, प्रायः 3–5 feet off the ground to serve as a lookout for his flock.
He will sound a distinctive सचेतक कॉल if predators are nearby.
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video game series, first published in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan.
In the US, it was initially published by wizards of the Coast, the company that produces, in December 1998.
निन्टेंडो took over publishing in June 2003.
It is one of Nintendo 's last remaining दमदार links to its heritage as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in gaydon, warwickshire, संयुक्त Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is part of the Jaguar Land रोवर group, a subsidiary of Tata Motors of India.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car ब्रांड in the world ( after Jeep ).
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for one specific vehicle model, named बस the जमीन रोवर, शुभारम्भ by रोवर in 1948.
Over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a range of four-wheel-drive models, including the Defender, Discovery, Freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque.
Land Rovers are currently assembled in the company 's Halewood and Solihull plants, with research and development taking प्लेस at jlr 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 वाहनों विश्वव्यापी in 2009.
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 मॉडल, जमीन रोवर as a company has only existed since 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently absorbed into the rover-triumph प्रभाग of the अंग्रेजों Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models, and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business troubles prompted the establishment of a separate Land Rover company but still under the BL छतरियाँ, बाकी भाग of the subsequent रोवर समूह in 1988, अंतर्गत the स्वामित्व of अंग्रेजों aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised.
in 1994 रोवर समूह पीएलसी थी acquired by bmw.
In 2000, Rover Group was broken-up by bmw and Land Rover was sold to Ford Motor Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover brand इससे bmw for around £6 million.
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands लिये the पहला समय चूंकि 2000 जब the Rover group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, Ford sold both Land Rover and Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors.
This sale also शामिल the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the first DVD संकलन released by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth season of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी श्रेणी is named.
the श्रेणी is based on Tite Kubo 's manga with same name.
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki Abe and उत्पादित by TV Tokyo, Dentsu, and Studio Pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper captain, Shūsuke Amagai, and the mystery surrounding the kasumiōji गोत्र, one of the families that constitute the nobility of Soul Society.
The season began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo और ended on October 7, 2008.
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media, and this arc began airing on अगस्त 28, 2010 on कार्टून Network 's Adult Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four एपीसोड of the ऋतु, have महरूम released by aniplex ; the first DVD compilation was released on November 26, 2008 and the fifth on March 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be प्रकाशित by Viz Media on December 13, 2011.
The episodes use three pieces of theme music : one opening theme and two closing विषयवस्तु.
The खोलने theme is `` Chu-Bura `` by Kelun.
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B, used for episodes 168 to 179, and the second closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, used for the remainder of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may विनियमित it as भाग of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स साथ कानून जैसे the मन अधिनियम.
In most states, prostitution is माना a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time माना to be a vagrancy crime.
फिलहाल, नेवाडा is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Only 8 काउंटी currently contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other counties theoretically allow brothel वेश्यावृति, लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with अन्य देशों, prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The East Coast of the United States, also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic seaboard और commonly shortened to East Coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean.
The states जिससे have shoreline on the East Coast are, from north to south, the U.S. states of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – अप्रैल 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in Yorba लिंडा, California.
He ग्रैजुएट इससे whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, moved to Washington to work for the संघीय सरकारी in 1942.
He subsequently served in the United राज्य नेवी दौरान World War II.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican Party अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon परोसा लिये eight years as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी and was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's विज़िट to the लोगों 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, his प्रशासन generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he शुभारम्भ पहलों to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's second पद देखी an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18, 1994, and died four days later at the आयु of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
it थी introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily विहित लिये प्रमुख depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive, panic, and social anxiety disorders in both adults and children.
In 2011, it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that of older tricyclic antidepressants, but इसके side effects are much less pronounced.
Differences साथ नए antidepressants हैं subtler and also mostly confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work better than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of अवसाद.
Treatment of panic disorder साथ sertraline परिणाम in a significant घटी of the number of panic attacks and in improved quality of life.
For obsessive-compulsive disorder, sertraline is not as effective as cognitive behavioral therapy ; the best results have महरूम हासिल by combining these two treatments.
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic तनाव विकार, sertraline लीड to तभी modest improvement in these conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the लक्षण of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of other SSRIs, with high rates of nausea, diarrhea, insomnia, and sexual side effects ; however, it does not cause वज़न लाभ, और इसके effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the drug was present in significant concentrations in fetal blood, and was also संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर रेट of various birth defects.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline for depression may be associated साथ a higher rate of suicidality.
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama फिल्मी निर्देशित by Robert Townsend, who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century Fox, the film 's main cast includes Townsend, Michael Wright, Leon Robinson, Harry J. Lennix, Tico Wells, Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers, and Diahann Carroll.
The plot of the फिल्मी ( जिससे is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells, The Temptations, Four Tops, Wilson Pickett, James Brown, Frankie Lymon, Sam Cooke and others ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats.
The film depicts the वृद्धि और पतन of a motown प्रेरित आत्मा अधिनियम through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist, Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ), who serves as a narrator throughout the film.
However, a majority of the cinema is presented in a consecutive समय लकीर as opposed to traditional flash backs.
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the film 's soundtrack, including singles such as `` A Heart Is a House for Love ``, `` We Have n't Finished Yet '', and `` Nothing But Love ''.
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29, 1991 however it was not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another dvd रिलीज in 2006 लिये the फिल्मी 's 15th वर्षगांठ.
The movie received mixed समीक्षाएँ इससे critics.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – अक्तूबर 4, 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is माना to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
he थी foaled at The Meadow in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War, Secretariat थी a विशाल शाहबलूत colt and was given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, Nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by पैनी chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte, along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's मर्ग stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, and weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in उसके रेसिंग प्रधान.
A typical 12 V, 40 Ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery that supplies इलेक्ट्रिक उर्जा to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an sli बैटरी ( starting, lighting, ignition ) to power the starter motor, the lights, and the ignition system of a vehicle’s engine.
Automotive SLI बैटरी हैं प्रायः lead-acid type, and are made of six galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system.
Each cell provides 2.1 volts for a total of 12.6 volt at पूरा चार्ज.
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors, often equipped with diesel engines, may have two batteries in series for a 24 volt system, or may have समानांतर strings of batteries.
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide, which are submerged into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water.
This causes a chemical reaction that releases electrons, allowing उन्हें to flow through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte reacts with the materials of the plates, बदलना उनके सतह to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical reaction is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into सीसे डाइऑक्साइड and lead.
With the plates restored to their असली condition, the process may now be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new batteries, diverts विषाक्त सीसे इससे landfills, और रोकता risk of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is नियुक्ति in which a person works a minimum number of hours defined as such by his/her employer.
Full-time employment often comes साथ लाभ कि हैं नहीं typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible workers, such as annual leave, sickleave, and health insurance.
full-time jobs are often considered careers.
They generally pay more than part-time jobs, and usually carry more hours per week.
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define full-time employment or part-time employment.
This is a matter generally to be संकल्पित by the employer ( US Department of Labor ).
The definition by employer can vary and is generally published in a company 's Employee हैंडबुक.
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 hours per सप्ताह to be defined as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits.
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on the shift the employee must work during each work week.
The `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour days, commonly परोसा between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it may also consist of as little as नौ घंटों लिये a कुल of a 36 hour work week.
Twelve-hour shifts are प्रायः तीन दिनों per week, unless the company has the intention of paying out the employee overtime.
Overtime is legally paid out anytime an employee works more than 40 hours per सप्ताह.
The legal minimum for ओवरटाइम starts at Base Pay + One-Half.
The increased payout is considered to compensate slightly for the increased थकान जिससे a person experiences on such long shifts.
शिफ्ट can भी be बहुत irregular, as in retail, but are still full-time if the required number of hours is reached.
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a रूप of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 प्रजाति of marine fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' आता इससे the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as शीर्षक II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing विधान for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The विधान निर्मित five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Maya numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
The numerals are made up of three symbols ; zero ( shell shape ), one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ).
For example, thirteen is written as three dots in a horizontal row above two horizontal lines stacked above each other.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the United States : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960, Johnson was asked by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी following the हत्या of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right, winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based विशेषकर on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, and crime rates soared, as his opponents raised demands for `` law and अनुक्रम '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक, he ended उसके bid for reelection.
Republican Richard निक्सन थी elected to succeed him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some इतिहासकारों क्युकी of his domestic policies.
प्रोजेस्टेरोन भी ज्ञात as p4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन शामिल in the मादा menstrual साईकिल, गर्भावस्था ( supports gestation ) और embryogenesis of इंसानो और अन्य प्रजाति.
Progesterone belongs to a क्लास of hormones called progestogens, and is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
बिग Bird is a protagonist of the children 's television show Sesame Street.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney चूंकि 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow bird.
He can roller skate, ice skate, dance, sing, लिखें काव्य, draw and even ride a unicycle.
But despite this wide array of talents, he is prone to frequent misunderstandings, on one occasion even singing the alphabet as one big long word ( इससे the सोंग पुकारा `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
He lives in a large nest behind the 123 Sesame Street brownstone and has a टेडी भालू नामित Radar.
webtrends is a निजी company headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States.
It provides web, social, and mobile analytics and other software solutions related to विपणन प्रज्ञा.
The company was संस्थापित in 1993 and now serves more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the second major crusade launched from Europe.
The Second Crusade was started in response to the पतन of the काउंटी of edessa the पिछला year to the forces of Zengi.
The county had been founded during the First Crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
While it was the first Crusader state to be founded, it was also the first to fall.
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope यूजीन iii, और थी the पहला of the क्रूसेड to be led by European kings, namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany, with help from a number of other European nobles.
The armies of the two kings marched separately across Europe.
After crossing Byzantine territory into Anatolia, both armies यहूद separately पराजित by the Seljuq Turks.
The main Western Christian सोर्स, odo of deuil, और syriac ईसाई sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of उनके सेना reached Jerusalem and, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus.
the crusade in the east was a failure for the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims.
It would ultimately have a कुंजी influence on the fall of Jerusalem and give rise to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 Flemish, Frisian, नॉर्मन, अंग्रेज़ी, स्कॉटिश, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from इंग्लैण्ड, by जलयान, to the पावन जमीन, the फौज रोका and helped the smaller ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon, expelling its Moorish occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an American multinational retail corporation that runs chains of large discount department stores and warehouse stores.
The company is the world 's third largest public corporation, according to the सौभाग्य वैश्विक 500 सूची in 2012, the biggest private employer in the world with over two million employees, and is the largest retailer in the world.
Walmart remains a family-owned business, as the company is controlled by the Walton family, who own a 48 percent stake in Walmart.
It is also one of the world 's most मूल्यवान कंपनियाँ.
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on अक्तूबर 31, 1969, and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in Bentonville, Arkansas.
walmart is भी the largest grocery retailer in the United States.
In 2009, it generated 51 percent of its US $ 258 billion बिक्री in the U.S. from grocery business.
It also owns and operates the Sam 's Club retail warehouses in North America.
By 1988, Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the US, and by November 1990, it outsold k-mart.
By 1991 it outsold Sears in retail, making it America 's largest retailer, a भेद it स्टिल holds.
Walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 countries, under 55 different names.
The company operates under the walmart नाम in the संयुक्त States, including the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
It operates in Mexico as Walmex, in the संयुक्त किंगडम as Asda, in Japan as Seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It has wholly owned operations in Argentina, ब्राज़ील, and Canada.
Walmart 's investments outside North America have था मिश्रित परिणाम : इसके परिचालन in the संयुक्त किंगडम, South America, and China are highly successful, whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 अप्रैल 1952 – 6 फ़रवरी 2011 ), was a Northern Irish musician, most widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a career dating back to the 1960s, Moore played with artists including Phil Lynott and ब्रायन Downey during his teens, leading him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions.
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as B.B. King, Albert King, Colosseum II, George Harrison and Greg Lake, as खूब as having a successful solo career.
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians, सहित a कैमियो रूप playing the सीसे गिटार solo on `` She 's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol. 3.
an example of rack mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to make उनके जालस्थल accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट, as well as providing Internet connectivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the अंतरजाल लिये other servers located in their data center, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The scope of web hosting services varies greatly.
The most मौलिक is वेब पेज और small-scale file hosting, where files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
the फाइलें हैं प्रायः वितरित to the वेब `` as is '' or साथ minimal प्रसंस्करण.
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer this service free to सदस्य.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting from वैकल्पिक सेवा प्रदाताओं.
Personal web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये निजी web pages.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides डेटाबेस support and application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow ग्राहक to लिखें or install scripts for applications like forums and content management.
Also, Secure sockets परत ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an इंटरफ़ेस or कंट्रोल फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the Web server and installing scripts, as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( इससे the लैटिन obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
अनेक obstetricians are also gynecologists, meaning they perform in both specialties.
In the United States, ये physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), were two American brothers, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the संसार 's पहला कामयाब वायुयान और बनाना the पहला नियंत्रित, powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the भाइयो developed their flying machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the first to build और मक्खी प्रायोगिक वायुयान, the Wright brothers were the first to invent aircraft controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their invention of three-axis कंट्रोल, जिससे सक्रिय the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
This method became standard and remains standard on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical work, the Wright brothers केन्द्रित on विकासशील a विश्वसनीय विधि of pilot control as the key to solving `` the flying problem ''.
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the time who put more emphasis on विकासशील powerful engines.
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel, the Wrights also एकत्रित अधिक सटीक आंकड़ा than कोई पहले, enabling them to design and build wings and propellers that were more efficient than any before.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did not claim invention of a flying machine, but rather, the invention of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working for years in their दूकान साथ मुद्रण दबाता, साइकिल, मोटर्स, and other machinery.
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief that an अस्थिर गाडी जैसे a उड़ती यंत्र could be नियंत्रित and balanced with practice.
From 1900 until their first powered flights in late 1903, they conducted extensive glider परीक्षण कि भी विकसित उनके कौशल as पायलटों.
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie टेलर became an महत्वपूर्ण part of the team, building their first aircraft engine in close collaboration with the brothers.
The Wright brothers ' status as inventors of the वायुयान has been subject to counter-claims by various parties.
Much विवाद persists over the many competing claims of early aviators.
America 's Next Top Model, Cycle 12 is the twelfth cycle of America 's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network.
it premiered on March 4, 2009.
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` Get In The Fold. ''
The cycle 's promotional song is Lady गागा 's `` The Fame ''.
The पुरस्कार for this cycle are:
A modeling अनुबंध with Elite Model Management.
A fashion स्प्रेड और cover in Seventeen.
A 100,000 contract with CoverGirl कॉस्मेटिक्स.
The first half of the cycle took प्लेस in New York City, moving the show back from Los Angeles last season.
The international destination for this cycle is São Paulo, Brazil, the श्रेणी पहला विज़िट to South America.
The क्रमांक of लड़कियों was reduced to 13, the first time since Cycle 9, after being maintained at 14 in the last two cycles.
This was the last समय paulina porizkova participated as judge.
The winner was 20-year-old Teyona Anderson इससे woodstown, New Jersey.
This ऋतु averaged 4.35 million viewers per episode.
Exxon Mobil Corporation, or ExxonMobil, is an American multinational oil and gas corporation headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
It is a direct वंशज of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil company, and was formed on November 30, 1999, by the merger of Exxon and Mobil.
It is affiliated with Imperial Oil which operates in Canada.
exxonmobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013, became the largest publicly traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The company is ranked # 5 globally in Forbes वैश्विक 2000 list in 2013.
exxon mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and, at then ( 2007 ) rates of production, are expected to last over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily refining capacity of, exxon mobil is the largest refiner in the संसार, a शीर्षक that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921 million BOE ( barrels of oil equivalent ).
In 2008, this was approximately 3 % of world production, which is less than अनेक of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
When ranked by oil and gas reserves it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations, able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire राष्ट्र ''.
in शर्तें of इसके पर्यावरणीय record, ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships, such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief executive until 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference at any level ''.
The company was widely criticized for its slow response to cleaning इसके 1989 valdez oil spill in Alaska.
This article is about the Globe थिएटर of Shakespeare.
For the modern पुनर्निर्माण in London, see Shakespeare 's Globe.
For other uses, see Globe Theatre ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The Globe थिएटर थी a theatre in London associated with William Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain 's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son, Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by जून 1614 और closed in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named `` Shakespeare 's Globe ``, opened in 1997 approximately इससे the site of the original theatre.
it 's a अद्भुत जीवन is a 1946 अमरीकी क्रिसमस नाटक फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक capra, आधारित on the छोटी स्टोरी `` the महानतम तोहफा ``, जिससे फिलिप वैन doren stern लिखा in 1939 और privately प्रकाशित in 1945.
The film is considered one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become परंपरागत देखने दौरान the Christmas season, alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol.
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey, a man who has given up his dreams in order to help others and whose imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings about the हस्तक्षेप of उसके संरक्षक देवदूत, क्लेरेंस Odbody ( Henry Travers ).
Clarence shows George all the lives he has touched and how different life in his community of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff competition at the समय of इसके रिलीज, the फिल्मी रै come to be regarded as a classic and is a staple of Christmas television around the world.
Theatrically, the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million, approximately twice the production cost, a figure it never came close to achieving in its initial release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes... it was initially a major disappointment and confirmed, at least to the studios, कि capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see, money-making events they once were. ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made, placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list, and would also place क्रमांक एक on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time.
आंकड़ा गोदाम Overview
In computing, a data गोदाम or enterprise data warehouse ( DW, DWH, or EDW ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis.
It is a central repository of data which is created by integrating data from one or more disparate sources.
Data warehouses store current as well as historical data and are प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना trending reports for senior management reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational systems ( such as marketing, बिक्री etc., shown in the figure to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational data store for additional operations before they are used in the DW for reporting.
The typical ETL -based आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग स्टेजिंग, data integration, and access layers to house its key functions.
The staging layer or staging database stores raw data extracted from each of the disparate सोर्स data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the data from the staging layer often storing इस रूपांतरित आंकड़ा in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data are then moved to yet another डेटाबेस, प्रायः called the data warehouse database, where the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts.
The combination of facts और आयाम is sometimes called a star schema.
The access परत helps users retrieve data.
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data सोर्स प्रणालियों does not require ETL, staging databases, or operational data store databases.
The integrated data source systems may be considered to be a part of a distributed operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data virtualization methods may be used to access the distributed integrated source data systems to consolidate and aggregate data directly into the आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse, the integrated source data systems and the data warehouse हैं all integrated since there is no transformation of dimensional or reference data.
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the ड्रिल bas इससे the कुल data of the data warehouse to the transactional data of the integrated source data systems.
Data warehouses can be subdivided into data marts.
Data marts store subsets of data from a warehouse.
This definition of the data गोदाम focuses on आंकड़ा storage.
The main source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and made available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining, online analytical processing, market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, and to manage the data dictionary are also considered अनिवार्य components of a आंकड़ा warehousing system.
Many सन्दर्भ to data warehousing use this broader context.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools, tools to extract, transform and load data into the repository, and tools to manage and retrieve metadata.
Portland stone quarry on the आइल of पोर्टलैंड, England
An abandoned construction aggregate quarry near Adelaide, South ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A quarry is a प्रकार of open-pit mine from which rock or minerals are extracted.
Quarries are generally used for extracting building materials, such as आयाम स्टोन, निर्माण कुल, riprap, sand, and gravel.
They are often collocated साथ concrete and asphalt plants due to the requirement for large amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as खोलें pit mines.
the शब्द quarry can include underground quarrying for stone, such as Bath stone.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism, the principal branch of the Latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist christianity, which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s.
After Smith 's death in 1844 the mormons followed ब्रिघम Young to what would become the Utah Territory.
Today Mormons are समझा to be सदस्यों of the गिरिजाघर of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
कुछ mormons हैं भी either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in यूटा, and North America has more Mormons than any other continent, though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States.
mormons have विकसित a strong sense of communality that stems from their doctrine and history.
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central भौगोलिक स्थान, और between 1852 और 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage, a form of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time और संसाधन to serving in their church, and many young Mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a स्वास्थ्य code that eschews alcoholic beverages, tobacco, coffee, tea, and other addictive substances.
They tend to be very family-oriented, and have strong connections across generations and with extended family, reflective of their belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout शाश्वत.
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity, requiring abstention from sexual relations outside of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage.
mormons self-identify as ईसाई, हालांकि कुछ of उनके मान्यताओं differ इससे मुख्यधारा christianity.
Mormons believe in the Bible, as well as अन्य books of scripture, such as the Book of Mormon.
They have a unique view of cosmology, और मानना कि all people are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the example of Jesus Christ, and accepting his atonement through ordinances ऐसे as baptism.
They believe that Christ 's church was restored through Joseph Smith, and is हिदायत by living prophets and apostles.
Central to Mormon faith is the विश्वास कि God speaks to his children and answers their prayers.
In financial हिसाब, एसेट are economic resources.
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being owned or नियंत्रित to उपज value and that is held to have positive economic value is considered an asset.
बस stated, एसेट represent value of ownership that can be converted into cash ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ).
The balance sheet of a कड़ रिकॉर्ड the monetaryJ.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There are अलग विधि of assessing the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet.
In some cases, the Historical Cost is used ; such that the value of the asset when it was bought in the past is used as the monetary मान.
In other instances, the present मेला मार्केट मान of the asset is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
मान of the assets owned by the firm.
It is money and other valuables belonging to an individual or business.
Two major asset classes are ठोस assets and intangible assets.
Tangible assets contain various subclasses, including current assets और फिक्स्ड assets.j.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 Current assets include inventory, while fixed assets include such items as buildings and equipment.J. downes, j.e. गुडमैन, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and rights that have a value to the firm because वे दे the कड़ कुछ kind of advantage in the market place.
उदाहरण of intangible एसेट हैं साख, copyrights, trademarks, patents and computer programs, and financial assets, including such items as accounts receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse, a specialized कनेक्शन साथ other cells.
Neurons connect to each other to form neural networks.
न्यूरॉन्स हैं the कोर components of the nervous system, which includes the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral ganglia.
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch, sound, light and numerous अन्य stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं of the संवेदी organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain.
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord, cause muscle contractions, and affect glands.
Interneurons connect neurons to other न्यूरॉन्स भीतर the same region of the brain or spinal cord.
A typical neuron possesses a cell body ( often called the सोम ), dendrites, and an axon.
Dendrites are thin structures कि उठता इससे the cell body, often extending for hundreds of micrometres and branching multiple times, giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree ''.
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a site called the axon hillock and travels for a distance, as दूर as 1 मीटर in इंसानो or भी अधिक in अन्य प्रजाति.
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise to multiple dendrites, but never to अधिक than एक axon, हालांकि the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates.
At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many exceptions to these rules : neurons कि कमी dendrites, न्यूरॉन्स कि have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons are electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically driven ion pumps, which combine with ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular विशेषज्ञता differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, and calcium.
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is generated, which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon, and activates सिनेप्टिक कनेक्शन्स साथ अन्य cells when it arrives.
Neurons do नहीं undergo cell division.
In सबसे cases, neurons are generated by special types of stem cells.
Astrocytes, a प्रकार of glial कोशिका, have भी been observed to turn into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas, the hippocampus and olfactory bulb, there is strong evidence for generation of substantial संख्याएँ of नई न्यूरॉन्स.
Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
The Steelers defeated the कार्डिनल्स by the score of 27–23.
The game was played on February 1, 2009, at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida.
With this win, the Steelers became the पहला team to win six Super Bowls.
Pittsburgh, who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record, also won their second Super Bowl in चार सालो बाद winning Super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season.
the कार्डिनल्स डाला the game seeking their first NFL title since 1947, the longest championship drought in the league.
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season, compiling a 9–7 record, and the playoffs with the aid of head coach Ken Whisenhunt, who was the Steelers ' offensive coordinator in Super Bowl XL, and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner, who was the Super कटोरी mvp in सुपर कटोरी xxxiv साथ उसके पूर्व team, St. Louis Rams.
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead, aided by linebacker जेम्स हैरिसन 's सुपर Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth quarter, Arizona scored 16 unanswered points, including wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception, to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on चौड़ी receiver santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, including four receptions for 73 yards on that final game-winning drive, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the award, and also was the third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are normally held before the game, the NBC television network broadcast attracted an average U.S. दर्शक of 98.7 लाख दर्शक, बनाना it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point.
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for संचार and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ).
लेजेंड
Marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to सब embryophytes ( land plants ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of water ; however since these do not contain lignin, they are not considered to be true vascular tissue.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic समूह ; however the name is convenient and remains in use as a collective term for mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ), but they produce neither flowers nor seeds, reproducing via spores.
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts deposits and channels those deposits into lending activities, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A bank is the connection between customers that have capital deficits and customers साथ पूंजी surpluses.
Due to their influence within a financial system and an economy, banks are generally highly regulated in most countries.
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional आरक्षित banking where they hold only a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit.
वे हैं generally विषय to minimum capital requirements which are based on an international set of capital standards, known as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena, headquartered in सियेना, Italy, which has been operating continuously since 1472.
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
Banking in its modern sense evolved in rich cities of पुनर्जागरण Italy, such as Florence, Venice and Genoa.
In the history of banking, a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici, Fugger, Welser, Berenberg, Baring and Rothschild —have played a सेंट्रल भूमिका over many centuries.
The Xbox is a video game console manufactured by microsoft.
It was released on November 15, 2001 in North America, February 22, 2002 in जापानी, और कूच 14, 2002 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया and Europe.
It was Microsoft 's first foray into the गेमिंग कंसोल market.
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2, Sega 's Dreamcast ( which stopped American sales before the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
The Xbox was the first console offered by an American कम्पनी बाद the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live सेवा शुभारम्भ in November 2002 allowed players to play games online with a broadband connection.
It first competed with Dreamcast 's online service but later primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's online service.
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely adopted yet, Xbox Live was a success due to better servers, features such as a buddy list, and milestone शीर्षक जैसे हेलो 2 released in नवम्बर 2004, जिससे is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years.
एक्सबॉक्स 's successor, the Xbox 360, was launched in November 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in लेट 2005 in Japan where sales were poor.
It was discontinued in late 2006 in Europe and जल्दी 2007 in उत्तर America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in November 2006, और the last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008.
support लिये out-of-warranty एक्सबॉक्स consoles थी discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox access to Xbox सजीव थी रोका on April 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the इन्जील of जॉन or बस John and often referred to in New Testament scholarship as the Fourth Gospel, is an account of the public ministry of Jesus.
It begins with the witness and प्रतिज्ञान by John the Baptist and concludes with the death, burial, resurrection, and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is चौथी of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics Matthew, Mark and Luke.
राज्य कि the किताब derives from the testimony of the ' disciple whom Jesus loved. '
Along with Peter, the unnamed disciple is especially close to Jesus, and early-church tradition identified him as John the Apostle, one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books together, yet, according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों, जॉन थी नहीं the लेखक of कोई of ये books.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and more has लगाई जॉन भीतर a first-century Jewish context.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to ट्रेस the विकास of the tradition from which the gospel arose.
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written.
It is notable that, in the gospel, the जातियाँ still appears to define itself primarily against Judaism, rather than as part of a wider Christian church.
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism, gradually ईसाइयों और यहूदियों became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, meaning that it describes यीशु as the incarnation of the divine Logos through whom all things were made, as the object of veneration, and more explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John does Jesus talk at लंबाई परिचय खुद and his divine role, often shared with the disciples only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on अलग चमत्कार ( including resurrecting Lazarus ), given as signs meant to engender faith.
Synoptic elements such as parables और exorcisms are not found in John.
It presents a realized eschatology in जिससे मोक्ष is already present for the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, यहूद टेन calamities that, according to the biblical Book of Exodus, Israel 's God, Yahweh, inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated बाद the tenth plague, triggering the Exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to contrast the शक्ति of yahweh साथ the impotence of Egypt 's various gods.
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues साथ निर्णय on specific gods associated with the Nile, fertility and natural phenomena.
The plagues of Egypt are also उल्लेखित in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the किताब of exodus, God proclaims that all the gods of Egypt will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the plague of hail और fire ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting.
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a कथा, either through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a process of structured decision-making or character development.
Actions taken भीतर अनेक खेल सफल or fail according to a formal system of rules and guidelines.
There are several forms of आरपीजी.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through discussion, whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
In both of these forms, an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the rules and सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त और अधिनियमों as रेफरी, जबकि each of the other players plays the role of a single character.
Several किस्में of आरपीजी भी मौजूद in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक media, such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video games in which players कंट्रोल a अक्षर or टोली जो undertake quests, and may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics.
These games often share settings and rules with tabletop RPGs, but emphasize character उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling.
Despite this variety of forms, some game forms such as trading card games and wargames कि हैं सम्बन्धित to role-playing games may not be included.
role-playing कार्यकलाप may sometimes be present in such games, but it is not the primary focus.
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in teaching, training, and academic research.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort आयोजित by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states और established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the रास्ता.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial युद्धों.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
The परिभाषा of the world 's busiest airport has been specified by the Airports Council International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines और उपायों the following three types of airport traffic:
Passenger traffic : total passengers emplaned और deplaned, passengers in transit counted once
Cargo traffic : loaded and unloaded भाड़ा and mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements : landings और take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World युद्ध or संसार युद्ध I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of जर्मनी, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल Powers.
ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants यहूद मारे, largely क्युकी of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It थी the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers यहूद at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, जबकि the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी states.
The League of Nations थी formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the Gulf of मैक्सिको on the bp -operated macondo prospect, माना the largest आकस्मिक समुद्री आयल spill in the इतिहास of the पेट्रोलियम industry, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, which claimed 11 lives, a sea-floor oil gusher flowed unabated for 87 days, until it was capped on 15 जुलाई 2010.
The total निर्वहन is estimated at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and estuaries from the spreading आयल utilizing skimmer जहाजों, फ्लोटिंग booms, controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several failed efforts to contain the flow, the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010.
Some reports indicate the well site continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, साथ साथ प्रतिकूल प्रभाव इससे the जवाब and cleanup activities, extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats, fishing and tourism industries, and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill, tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations छान the causes of the explosion and record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the खूब, faulting ज़्यादातर bp, लकिन भी खूब ऑपरेटर transocean और contractor Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an insufficient safety system, but also concluded that the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes and `` अनुपस्थित significant सुधार in दोनो उद्योग practices और सरकारी नीतियों, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading अपराधी to 11 रिश्तो of manslaughter, दो misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress.
BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its safety practices and ethics, and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP होता be temporarily बैन इससे नई अनुबंध with the US government.
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further legal proceedings not अपेक्षित to conclude जबतक 2014 हैं जारी to determine payouts और जुर्माना अंतर्गत the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment.
As of February 2013, दण्ड और सिविल settlements and payments to a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion.
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' is a song by चट्टान बैंड u2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's तीसरा सिंगल in अगस्त 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay प्रभाव, निभाई during the song 's introduction and again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the street on जिससे वे जिया, विशेषकर in Belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the song, producer Brian eno माना erasing the song 's tapes to have them start from scratch.
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics and became a commercial success, peaking at number thirteen in the US, number fourteen in Canada, number ten in the Netherlands, and number four in the United Kingdom.
The song has become one of the band 's most popular गीतों और रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके सजीव act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour.
The song was notably performed on a Los एंजिल्स छत लिये the फिल्मांकन of इसके म्यूज़िक वीडियो, जिससे जीती a ग्रैमी Award for Best Performance Music Video.Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` tom '' हैंक्स ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an American actor, producer, writer, and director.
Hanks is known for his roles in अपोलो 13, Big, That Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie Wilson 's War, Catch Me If तुम Can, Forrest Gump, Cast Away, A League of Their Own, The Da Vinci Code, Angels & Demons, as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career, सहित जीतना a सुनहरी ग्लोब लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये his role in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump, and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
Hanks is also known for his collaboration with film director Steven Spielberg on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers, which launched Hanks also as a successful director, producer and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the United States box office alone, and over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the highest all-time box office star.
The केप is an American superhero drama series.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on Sunday, January 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time.
An encore played on Monday, January 10, with follow-up episodes continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a परिणाम of low ratings.
On March 2, 2011, NBC announced that the series finale would तभी be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye इससे Earth, and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular, लकिन होगा appear तभी एकबार in हज़ारों of years.
हैली 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have महरूम observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि at तनिक 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by चाइनीज, babylonian, और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is अभी named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted कि हैली होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data जिससे substantially reformed और reconfigured ये ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated places of the United States of अमेरिका.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a काउंटी, or काउंटी equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल multiple incorporated places.
This list presents तभी कि portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.
Note that इस सूची refers तभी to the जनसांख्यिकी of व्यक्तिगत municipalities within their defined limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A अलग रैंकिंग is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan area populations.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail and survival in a हर्ष New World environment.
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a शॉट on goal against Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup.
Forwards, also known as strikers, are the players on a team in association football who play nearest to the opposing टोली 's लक्ष्य, और हैं इसलिए प्रधानतया जिम्मेदार for scoring goals.
This very उन्नत स्थिति and its limited defensive responsibilities mean forwards normally score more goals than other players.
This position requires प्रज्ञा, speed, and power, both of execution and of thought, to perform the role well.
Modern team formations प्रायः include one to three forwards ; two is the most common.
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced position ( the centre forward ), and another attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as खूब as स्कोरिंग ( the second striker ).
It should be noted that inside forwards develop इससे attacking midfield स्थितियाँ and hence are naturally midfielders.
Barcelona FC star लियोनेल मेस्सी is a ठेठ Attacking Midfielder seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy.
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available to same-sex युगल, और to निश्चित opposite-sex युगल in जिससे at तनिक one party is at least 18 years of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, and benefits, and... the same responsibilities, दायित्वों, and duties under law... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership registry was the first of its kind in the United States created by a legislature without court intervention.
Initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner.
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California domestic partnerships to शामिल सब of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage.
As such, California domestic partnerships are functionally समतुल्य to सिविल unions offered in several other states.
Although the कार्यक्रम enjoys broad support in California, it has been the source of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the expansion of domestic partnerships in अदालत.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate लकिन बराबर '' जातिगत laws of the Jim Crow era.
चिह्नित A. जैक्सन ( born April 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball coach, and former player who is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA.
A point guard from St. John 's University, he played लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks, इंडियाना पेसर्स, लॉस एंजिल्स Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Toronto Raptors, Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a commentator for ESPN and ABC alongside his former coach Jeff Van Gundy और play-by-play man माइक breen.
He was previously an NBA analyst for The YES Network 's New Jersey नेट games.
South Africa has eleven official भाषाएं : अफ्रीकी, अंग्रेज़ी, Ndebele, Northern Sotho, Sotho, Swazi, Tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two percent of South Africans speak a first language other than an official one.
Most South africans can speak more than one language.
Dutch and English were the first official languages of South Africa from 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans was added as a part of Dutch in 1925.
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961, and Dutch was dropped in 1983, so between 1983 and 1994, South Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ), setswana, अंग्रेज़ी, Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ), Xitsonga, Siswati, Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ).
In South Africa, दक्षिणी Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele, as most speakers of Northern Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as sesotho sa Leboa, but the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different government departments and official bodies use अलग शर्तें to denote Northern Sotho.
The प्रमुख भाषा of सरकारी is English even if South Africans often take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans भी सुविधाएँ prominently in commerce together with English as the languages with the highest number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In terms of linguistic classification, the official languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these हैं nguni भाषाएं ( ज़ुलू, ख़ोसा, स्वाति और Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana languages ( Northern Sotho, Southern Sotho and Tswana ).
Tsonga is a tswa–ronga language.
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely emerged नेशनल मानक भाषा which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium और नाइट्रिक acid, existing normally as a crystalline hydrate, most commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The New York Jets are a professional football team headquartered in Florham पार्क, नई जर्सी, representing the New York metropolitan area.
the टोली is a member of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
In a unique arrangement for the league, the Jets share MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New जर्सी साथ the नई यॉर्क दिग्गज.
The मताधिकार is legally and corporately registered as New York Jets, LLC.
The team was founded in 1959 as the Titans of New York, an original member of the American Football League ; later, the franchise joined the एनएफएल in the AFL–NFL merger.
The team began to play in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new स्वामित्व, the वर्तमान name was adopted in 1963 and the franchise was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in Super Bowl III where they defeated the Baltimore Colts, becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an afl-nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप Game.
Since 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times, and in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार times, most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010.
However, the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance, along with the New ऑरलियन्स संतो और tampa Bay Buccaneers.
The team 's training facility, अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य Jets Training Center, which opened in 2008, is located in Florham Park.
The team currently holds their annual training camp sessions on the campus of the State University of New York at Cortland in Cortland, नई यॉर्क जबकि पकड़कर occasional सत्र at the Florham Park complex.
Psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also known as psychedelic mushrooms, are fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin मशरूम, the most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms.
biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia, Galerina, Gerronema, Gymnopilus, Hypholoma, Inocybe, Mycena, Panaeolus, Pluteus, and Psilocybe.
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin mushrooms and most of them fall in the genus psilocybe.
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि prehistoric times and may have been depicted in rock art.
Many cultures have used these मशरूम in religious rites.
In modern Western society they are used recreationally for their साइकेडेलिक effects.
Recent अध्ययन done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when used properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the international boundary with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th तनिक populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of अलास्का 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil, natural gas, and fishing industries ; it has these resources in प्रचुरता.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at लगभग two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an Aleut word derived from the same root.
The 101 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements, जिससे may be translated into English as districts.
The capital of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( पूंजी ) of the विभाग, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
arrondissements हैं further विभाजित into cantons और communes.
The vagina ( इससे लैटिन vāgīna, वस्तुतः `` म्यान '' or `` म्यान `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट जिससे is a sex अंग और रै दो प्रमुख कृत्यों ; यौन मैथुन और प्रसव.
In humans, this passage लीड इससे the खोलने of the भग to the uterus ( womb ), but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
Unlike men, who have तभी one genital orifice, women have two, the urethra and the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral खोलने, and both openings are protected by the labia.
The inner mould of the vagina रै a foldy texture which can create friction for the penis during intercourse.
During arousal, the vagina gets moist to facilitate the entrance of the penis.
The latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely used in English.
Colloquially, the word vagina is often used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in सामान्य.
However, by its dictionary and anatomical definitions, vagina refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League Baseball team based in सिनसिनाटी, Ohio.
They are सदस्यों of the National League Central Division.
Established in 1881 as an independent club, the team became a charter member of the अमरीकी संघ in 1882, और joined the नेशनल League in 1890.
The club traditionally traces its उत्पत्ति to baseball 's first openly professional team in 1869.
The Reds have जीती पाँच संसार श्रेणी शीर्षक, एक अमरीकी संघ pennant, नौ नेशनल लीग pennants और टेन प्रभाग शीर्षक.
the लाल निभाई in the नेशनल लीग वेस्ट between 1969 और 1993 और have महरूम in the नेशनल लीग सेंट्रल चूंकि 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have निभाई at Great American Ball Park, built next to their home from 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
Bob castellini has owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006.
A शरारत stink bomb.
A stink bomb is a device designed to create an अप्रिय smell.
They range in effectiveness from simple pranks to सैन्य grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The Guinness Book of रिकॉर्ड सूचियाँ दो smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of eight chemicals with a stench resembling इंसान मल, तभी much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
another एक, `` जो me ? ``, is a mixture of five sulfur-containing chemicals and smells like rotting food and carcasses.
The adage `` A picture is worth a thousand words '' refers to the notion that a जटिल विचार can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It also aptly characterizes one of the main goals of visualization, namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of आंकड़ा जल्दी.
The अभिव्यक्ति `` उपयोग a picture.
It 's worth a thousand शब्द. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity.
1913 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 newspaper विज्ञापन लिये the piqua स्वचालित सप्लाई हाउस of Piqua, Ohio.
An early use of the सटीक phrase appears in an 1918 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers.
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the advertising trade journal Printers ' Ink, promoting the use of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad entitled, `` One Look is लायक a हजार शब्द. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 issue with the phrase `` One Picture Worth Ten हजार शब्द, '' जहाँ it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of Proverbs, Maxims, and Familiar Phrases quotes Barnard as saying he called it `` a Chinese proverb, so that लोगों would take it seriously. ''
Soon after, the proverb would become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth हजार शब्द '' बनाम `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 miles worth 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A picture is worth a हजार words
despite इस आधुनिक उत्पत्ति of the popular phrase, the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers.
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 ), `` A picture shows me at a glance what it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables, and I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me your tables, and I won’t usually need your flowcharts ; they’ll be स्पष्ट. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John McCarthy, the famous computer वैज्ञानिक, to make the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in weather, ecology, and hours of daylight.
सीज़न परिणाम इससे the वार्षिक क्रान्ति of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are चिह्नित by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct धूप क्युकी the गोलार्ध चेहरों the sun.
The same is true of the दक्षिणी hemisphere in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the धरती कि कल्याणकारी the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the northern गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर, जनवरी और February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally चार पंचांग -आधारd seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न साथ साथ the traditional four.
Hot regions have दो or तीन सीज़न ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the dry season, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
the छह ecological seasons
The four पंचांग सीज़न, depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
डच exports in 2006
At the time of writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( see : List of देशों by जीडीपी ( nominal ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the world ( see : List of देशों by जीडीपी ( ppp ) प्रति capita ).
Between 1996 and 2000 annual आर्थिक विकास ( जीडीपी ) averaged over 4 %, well above the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as भाग of the वैश्विक economic slowdown.
2006 and 2007 however showed economic growth of 3.4 % और 3.9 %.
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the ongoing global financial crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis.
Several banks went bankrupt, and a number of others had to receive सरकारी सहायता.
In 2009 the अर्थव्यवस्था declined with 3.5 %, followed by two years of mild growth.
The Dutch economy is फिलहाल in a मंदी again, with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
Unemployment has been relatively कम compared to other EU nations for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The Netherlands managed to maintain its aaa दरजा at तनिक जबतक March 2013 according to the three major credit rating agencies.
Historically, the Dutch introduced and invented the stock market by the merchandise trading through Dutch West India Company.
The नीदरलैंड्स is a founding member of the European Union, the OECD and the World Trade Organization.
Loyal to the खेल is the tenth studio album and sixth studio album by Tupac Shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by Shakur before his death in 1996.
Released in the United States on December 14, 2004 ( December 12 in the संयुक्त किंगडम ), वफ़ादार to the Game was produced by Eminem.
The original panel of The View ; Meredith vieira, स्टार जोन्स, डिब्बी matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997.
The दृश्य is an अमरीकी बात दिखाएँ ब्रॉडकास्ट on ABC that debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime programming block.
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie, who both also serve as the show 's executive producers, the program features a फलक of महिलाओं as co-hosts.
Along with Walters, the current panel शामिल Whoopi Goldberg, who serves as the moderator, Joy Behar, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, and Sherri Shepherd.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय versions of the program are aired in several countries.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, The View is the fourth-longest running national daytime talk show in history, behind The Phil donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ), and The Oprah विनफ्रे Show ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, Virginia bird cherry and western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to उत्तर अमेरिका ; the प्राकृतिक ऐतिहासिक दायरा of P. virginiana includes most of the continent, except for the far north and far south.
Los Angeles अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport is the primary airport serving the Greater Los Angeles Area, the second-most populated metropolitan area in the United States.
It is most often referred to by its IATA airport code lax, साथ the letters pronounced individually.
LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood of Westchester, from the downtown core and is the primary विमानक्षेत्र of लॉस एंजिल्स संसार एयरपोर्ट ( lawa ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after hartsfield-jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, बीजिंग Capital International Airport, London Heathrow Airport, Chicago O'Hare International Airport, and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's व्यस्ततम उत्पत्ति और गंतव्य ( o & d ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 that involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
it is भी the only airport to rank among the top five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo traffic.
LAX is the busiest विमानक्षेत्र in the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स Area, but other airports including Bob Hope Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, LA/Ontario International Airport, and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region.
LAX is also the busiest airport in California and the West Coast of the संयुक्त राज्य in शर्तें of उड़ान परिचालन, passenger traffic and air cargo activity, leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an American football quarterback for the डेनवर broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He played for the Indianapolis Colts for 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an elder bhai of New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning.
Manning played college football for the University of Tennessee, leading the Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the No. 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the Orange Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom Osborne their 3rd national चैंपियनशिप in 4 years.
He was चुनी by the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस with the first overall pick in the 1998 NFL Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC East ) प्रभाग championships, दो afc championships, and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He रै जीती a रिकार्ड चार लीग सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार, was the most valuable player of Super Bowl XLI, has been named to twelve Pro Bowls, has twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons, and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the बेहतरीन player in the NFL and Fox Sports along with Sports Illustrated named him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s.
In may 2011, he underwent गर्दन सर्जरी to alleviate गर्दन पीड़ा और भुजा कमज़ोरी he dealt साथ दौरान the पिछला few सीज़न पहले हस्ताक्षर a five-year, $ 90 लाख अनुबंध एक्सटेंशन साथ the कोल्टस in जुलाई 2011.
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season, but in September 2011, he underwent a much more serious second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure.
Manning had never missed an NFL game in his career, but थी मजबूर to मिस the entire 2011 season.
He was released by the Colts on March 7, 2012, and after an almost two-week period where he visited with and worked आउट लिये अनेक एनएफएल टीमों, he हस्ताक्षरित with the Denver Broncos on March 20, 2012.
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the उपनाम, `` the शेरिफ '' and is one of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to Manning using an array of gestures और मौखिक कमांड to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
The America Tower of the अमरीकी सामान्य बीच, the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is one of the संसार 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 देशों, providing the आयल and gas industry with products and services for drilling, formation evaluation, completion, production and reservoir consulting.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the अमरीकी सामान्य Center in Neartown, Houston.
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed जब बेकर अंतरराष्ट्रीय and Hughes Tool Company merged in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices in Liverpool, United Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a शोध और मेंटेनेंस सुविधा in Celle, Germany ; Lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, Texas ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada, US Land, US Gulf, and Latin America ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into markets.
The United States one- cent coin, commonly ज्ञात as a पैनी, is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
The cent 's प्रतीक is ¢.
Its obverse has featured the profile of President Abraham lincoln चूंकि 1909, the centennial of his birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a नई, स्थाई reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010.
The सिक्का is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter and 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's आधिकारिक नाम लिये a पैनी is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official name is `` one cent piece ''.
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the same name, the pre-decimal version of which था a समान value.
In American English, pennies is the plural form, other plural forms pence and pee ( standard use in British अंग्रेज़ी ) हैं नहीं used.
As of 2012, it costs the u.S. मिंट 2.00 cents to make a cent because of the cost of materials and production.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components for distribution and fabrication, अनुमानित at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead allocated to the penny, which was $ 17.7 लाख for 2011.
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by other circulating coins बगैर the पैनी.
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent coin in the United States for the year of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
This was a slight decrease from 2011, the year before, which had a production loss of $ 60,200,000.
or more specifically, are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for सजावटी purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.
Koi varieties हैं विशिष्ट by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
Some of the major colors हैं श्वेत, ब्लैक, रेड, yellow, blue, and cream.
The सबसे लोकप्रिय श्रेणी of कोई is the gosanke, जिससे is बना up of the kohaku, taisho sanshoku, और showa sanshoku किस्में.
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government, about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia, and a few hundred private sector employees, mostly in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- postal federal employees and the largest union for District of Columbia employees who रपट directly to the mayor ( i.e., outside of D.C. public schools ).
It is संबद्ध with the AFL-CIO.
A late सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
ग्रीन : A spore tetrad.
Blue : A spore bearing a trilete चिह्नित – the -shaped scar.
The spores are about 30-35 μm आरपार
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing स्तर of complexity, from the earliest algal mats, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive, especially in the environments in which they evolved, for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` कामयाब '' than इसके पूर्ववर्तियों.
In the Ordovician period, around, the first land plants appeared.
These began to diversify in the late सिल्यूरियन काल, around, and the results of their diversification are displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved early plants in cellular detail, petrified in volcanic स्रोतों.
By the middle of the devonian काल, सबसे of the features recognised in plants today are present, including roots, leaves and secondary wood ; and, by late Devonian times, seeds had evolved.
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a degree of sophistication that allowed them to रूप वनों of tall trees.
विकासवादी नवीनता continued into the Carboniferous period and is still ongoing today.
Most plant groups were relatively unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities changed.
This may have set the scene for the appearance of the flowering plants in the Triassic ( ~ ), and their later diversification in the cretaceous और Paleogene.
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses, which became important in the mid-Paleogene, from around.
The grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of metabolism to survive the low and warm, dry शर्तें of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the last.
The winning Super Bowl team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the champion of the National Football लीग ( NFL ).
The contest is held in an American city that is chosen three to four years beforehand, प्रायः in warm-weather or domed sites.
चूंकि 1971, the विजेता of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ), the two leagues met in four such contests.
The first two were known as the `` afl-nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker, the names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` Super कटोरी ii `` were retroactively applied to the first two games.
The NFC /NFL leads in Super Bowl विन्स साथ 25, while the AFC /AFL has won 22.
Eighteen different franchises, सहित टीमों that relocated to another city, have won the Super Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with six championships ( record 6–2 ), while both the Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five wins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super कटोरी appearances with eight, while the Buffalo Bills have the most consecutive appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New England Patriots, डेनवर broncos and Minnesota Vikings have also lost a record four Super Bowls.
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4, Denver is 2–4 and New इंग्लैण्ड is 3–4.
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers, the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins, the 1974-75 and 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only team to accomplish this feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore Ravens, who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a सुपर कटोरी, including franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Jacksonville Jaguars, and Houston Texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
Martin County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas.
as of the 2010 census, its population was 4,799.
Its सीट is Stanton.
The county is named for Wylie Martin, an early settler.
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, काउंटी in the राज्य of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many प्रकार of अणुओं, सहित nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The process of removing the फास्फेट group is called dephosphorylation.
As the name suggests, क्षारीय phosphatases are most effective in an alkaline environment.
It is sometimes used synonymously as मौलिक phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories दौरान the लेट 19th century.
The grain was originally करवाया in स्कॉटलैंड and Sweden.
commercially उपलब्धियाँ triticale is almost always a second generation hybrid, i.e., a cross between two kinds of primary ( first cross ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the उपज संभावित and grain quality of wheat with the disease and environmental tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
Only recently has it been developed into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can more or less resemble either of इसके parents.
it is grown ज़्यादातर लिये forage or चारा, हालांकि कुछ triticale-based भोजन can be खरीदा at स्वास्थ्य खाना स्टोर्स or हैं to be मिला in कुछ नाश्ता cereals.
When crossing wheat and rye, wheat is used as the मादा parent and rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ).
The resulting hybrid is sterile, and must be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the क्षमता to reproduce itself.
The primary निर्माता of triticale हैं Poland, Germany, France, Belarus and Australia.
In 2009, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ), 15.0 million tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world.
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid, which means the plant is diploid for two genomes निकला इससे अलग प्रजाति.
In other words, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In पहले सालो, most work was done on octoploid triticale.
Different ploidy levels have been निर्मित और evaluated over time.
The tetraploids showed little promise, but hexaploid triticale was successful enough to find वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग.
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program चाही to improve खाना उत्पादन and nutrition in developing countries.
Triticale has potential in the production of ब्रैड और अन्य खाना उत्पाद, ऐसे as कुकीज़, pasta, pizza dough and breakfast cereals.
The protein content is higher than that of गेहूं, हालांकि the glutenin fraction is less.
The अनाज has also been stated to have higher levels of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased acceptance, the मिलिंग उद्योग will have to adapt to triticale, as the milling techniques employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be used as a feed grain, and later research found its starch was particularly readily digested.
As a फीड अनाज, triticale is already well established and of high economic importance.
It has received ध्यान as a potential energy crop, and research is currently being conducted on the use of the crop 's biomass in bioethanol production.
`` Puff, the Magic Dragon '' is a song written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow, and made popular by Yarrow 's समूह पीटर, पॉल और मरियम in a 1963 recording.
the सोंग हासिल great popularity.
A college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate play in the United States, currently the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) Division I Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ), is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly Division I-A ) football is the only NCAA sport in which a yearly चैंपियन is नहीं संकल्पित by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
Because the championship team is not determined by a NCAA championship or tournament event, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical नेशनल championship ``.
Since the NCAA, the sport 's governing देह, does not determine or declare a national champion in this field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A championship team is independently declared by various individuals and organizations, often referred to as `` चयनकर्ताओं ''.
These choices are sometimes at odds with प्रत्येक अन्य.
While the ncaa रै never officially endorsed an annual championship team, it has documented the choices of several selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records.
In addition, various third party analysts have independently published their own lists of what they have संकल्पित to be the सबसे legitimate selections for each season.
These are also often at odds with each other as well as individual school 's claims on national championships, which, for any particular season, may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
फिलहाल, दो widely पहचाना नेशनल champions चयनकर्ताओं हैं the संबद्ध दबायें, जिससे conducts a poll of football sportswriters, and the USA Today Coaches ' Poll, a poll of American Football Coaches Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion.
The मिल्वौकी ब्रेवर्स are a professional baseball team based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major League बेसबॉल 's नेशनल League and plays its home games at Miller Park.
The team is so named because of the city 's association with the brewing उद्योग.
the वॉशिंगटन Nationals are a professional baseball team based in Washington, D.C.
The Nationals are a member of the East प्रभाग of the नेशनल लीग of Major League Baseball ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is Nationals Park, located on South Capitol Street in Southeast D.C., near the anacostia River.
The park opened in 2008, replacing RFK Stadium, the team 's home from 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' name derives from the former Washington baseball टोली that had the same name ( used interchangeably with Senators ).
Their उपनाम is `` the Nats '' —a shortened version that was also used by the old D.C. teams.
An expansion franchise, the club was founded in as the मॉन्ट्रियल expos, the first major league team in Canada.
They were based in Montreal, क्यूबेक, और निभाई their home games at Jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium.
In, the expos जीती a प्रभाग चैंपियनशिप, won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies, 3–2, and advanced to the National League Championship Series, where they would go on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers, 3–2, in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season.
The Expos had their highest winning प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened season of, when the team had the best record in baseball.
The team 's subsequent shedding of players caused fan ब्याज to drop off.
After the 2001 ऋतु, एमएलबी माना revoking the team 's franchise, along with either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
After being purchased by MLB in 2002, the team was moved before the ऋतु to वॉशिंगटन और renamed the नागरिकों, the पहला relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, and became the Texas Rangers in.
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises, and the only one in the नेशनल लीग, कि रै never played in a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United राज्य ) or सशर्त शुल्क ( in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स ) is कोई fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee charged for a वकील 's services only if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of court....
Contingent fees are usually गणना as a percentage of the client 's net recovery. ''
In the English legal system, it is generally referred to as no win no fee.
A सशर्त शुल्क agreement between a law firm and a client.
The usual form of इस अनुबंध is कि the solicitor will take a law case on the understanding that if lost, no payment is made.
However, if the case is won, the lawyer will be entitled to the सामान्य शुल्क आधारित on hourly billing, plus a success fee.
The success fee in इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत no greater than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US, which gives the successful attorney a percentage of the क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in favor of his client.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise, to sue someone for a tort, one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such litigation in the first place.
However, because of the high risk, few attorneys will take cases on a contingency basis unless they महसूस the मामला रै good merit.
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees यहूद अनुमत as of कि साल in the following देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Brazil, Canada, the Dominican Republic, France, Greece, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
They are also allowed in निजी injury actions in Lithuania.
recently, वे have been allowed in Belgium as well.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose.
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit गैरकानूनी मोटरसाइकिल club operating in Charming, a fictional town in California 's Central Valley.
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' teller ( चार्ली Hunnam ), the then-vice president of the club, who begins questioning the club and himself.
Sons of Anarchy premiered on September 3, 2008, on केबल network FX.
The third season of the series attracted an average of 4.9 million viewers per week, making it FX 's highest rated series ever, surpassing FX 's अन्य हिट्स the शील्ड, Nip/Tuck, and Rescue Me.
On फ़रवरी 3, 2012, Sons of Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons, a fifth and a sixth.
Those involved in the production of the series imply that a seventh and final season is निर्माता कर्ट Sutter 's plan.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) and the volcano of the same नाम हैं in south-east आइसलैंड.
They are in the highlands of Iceland at the northwestern पक्ष of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The lakes are at, at an elevation of.
Beneath the झीलों is the magma chamber of the Grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the वही fissure system.
Grímsvötn थी erupting at the same time as Laki during 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
Because most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull, most of its eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater from the बर्फ कल्याणकारी phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC, an eruption began, with high plumes accompanied by अनेक भूकंप, resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in Iceland, and in the United Kingdom, Greenland, Germany, Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May.
Until 25 May the eruption scale had been larger than that of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011, although there was some विस्फोटक कार्यकलाप इससे the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater.
Vetting is the प्रक्रम of performing a background check on someone before offering them employment, conferring an award, etc.
A prospective person or project may be vetted before बनाना a hiring decision.
In addition, in intelligence gathering, assets are vetted to determine their उपयोगिता.
Former मुख्यालय and current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public gaming corporation that owns and operates over 50 कसीनो, होटल, और सात गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम अंतर्गत अनेक brands.
The company, based in Paradise, नेवाडा, is the largest gaming company in the world, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant हिस्सेदारी.
The name change from `` harrah 's entertainment inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a कुंजी ब्रांड in the company.
On November 5, 2010, Harrah 's announced an initial public offering of 31,250,000 साझा लकिन retracted this offering on November 19.
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen but who has been granted permission to live and work in कनाडा बगैर कोई time limit on his or her stay.
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years out of every five or risk losing that status.
A Permanent निवासी holds अनेक of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen, among others the right to work for any enterprise as well as for the federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ).
The main differences are that निवासियों can not :
vote in चुनावों in Canada ;
चलाएं लिये elected office ;
hold Canadian passports ;
In addition, they may be allowed to join Canada 's हथियारबंद शक्तियां if the नेशनल interest would not be prejudiced.
स्थाई निवासियों भी रिस्क deportation for serious crimes committed while resident in Canada.
Permanent residents may apply for Canadian citizenship after three सालो in कनाडा ; however this is not mandatory.
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the American ABC Daytime साबुन ओपेरा All My Children.
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16, 1970 until the last ब्रॉडकास्ट टेलीविज़न episode aired on September 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it was announced that Lucci will guest-star on the Prospect पार्क 's continuation of All My Children.
In the U.S., Erica is considered to be the most popular अक्षर in साबुन ओपेरा इतिहास.
Regarding the north-american मार्केट, TV Guide calls her `` unequivocally the most famous soap opera character in the history of daytime TV '', and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), and its percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the price level of a market basket of उपभोक्ता goods and services purchased by households.
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services. ''
The CPI is a सांख्यिकीय अनुमान constructed using the prices of a sample of representative items whose prices are collected periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes हैं computed लिये अलग श्रेणी and sub-categories of goods and services, being combined to produce the overall index with weights reflecting their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index.
it is एक of several price indices calculated by most national statistical agencies.
The annual percentage change in a CPI is used as a माप of महंगाई.
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e., adjust for the effect of inflation ) the real value of wages, salaries, pensions, लिये regulating कीमतें and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values.
In most countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product Accounts, one of the most closely देखी नेशनल आर्थिक आंकडे.
Knocking on wood, or to touch wood, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on wood, or merely stating that you are doing or intend same, in order to avoid `` tempting भाग्य `` बाद बनाना a favourable अवलोकन, a boast, or घोषणा concerning एक 's own death.
रॉकर arm
generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines, the rocker arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it.
One end is raised and lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) जबकि the अन्य समाप्त acts on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm, the inside presses down on the valve stem, opening the valve.
When the outside of the arm is permitted to return due to the camshafts rotation, the inside rises, allowing the valve spring to close the वाल्व.
The drive cam is चलित by the camshaft.
This pushes the rocker arm up and down परिचय the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
Friction may be घटाया at the point of contact with the valve stem by a roller cam follower.
A similar व्यवस्था हस्तांतरण the motion via another roller cam follower to a second rocker arm.
This rotates about the rocker shaft, और हस्तांतरण the गति via a tappet to the poppet valve.
In this case this opens the intake वाल्व to the cylinder head.
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio, the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of रोटेशन to the पाइंट acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive design favors rocker भुजा ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past छोटी positive ratios ( the valve lift is greater than the cam lift ) and even negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used.
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 ( न्यूट्रल ) ratios.
For car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings, providing a reasonable balance of strength, weight and economical cost.
Because the rocker arms are, in part, reciprocating weight, excessive mass especially at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
Reba McEntire बाद covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972, the song centers around the older brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of and executed for a murder, which the narrator herself has वचनबद्ध.
In postal mail, a return address is an explicit समावेश of the address of the person sending the message.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) साथ a अर्थात् to determine how to respond to the sender of the message if needed.
The return address need not include a sender 's name, but should include address or P.O. box details in the same रास्ता as the डिलीवरी address should.
In some countries, the वापसी पता is conventionally located in the upper left hand corner of the envelope, card, or label.
In the United Kingdom, the return address is usually placed on the reverse of the लिफाफा, निकट the top.
Businesses प्रायः use envelopes preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence.
Charities sometimes शामिल such sheets in mailshots.
Rolls of वापसी पता लेबल्स can be खरीदा इससे companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way to peel and stick return address labels to their envelopes.
the वापसी address is not required on postal mail.
However, lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to return the item if it proves undeliverable ; such as from damage, postage due, or invalid destination.
Such mail may thus become मुर्दे अक्षर mail.
Should the return address be of a different state or country, the mail may be routed through that location for ease of return.
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial nerve graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries.
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed nerve can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर tension, the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting, neural tissue engineering research has focused on the विकास of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for large defects.
Similar techniques are also being explored for तंत्रिका मरम्मत in the spinal cord but nerve regeneration in the central nervous system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment.
The creation of artificial conduits is भी ज्ञात as entubulation because the nerve ends and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit, it should facilitate neurotropic and neurotrophic communication between the proximal and distal ends of the nerve gap, block external inhibitory कारकों, और provide a शारीरिक मार्गदर्शन लिये axonal regrowth.
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine physical, chemical, and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation.
Materials that have been used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal मांसपेशियां, जबकि nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively.
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure, scaffold material, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which physical, chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the तंत्रिका पर्यावरण, जिससे is नाजुक in बनाना the most desirable environment for axon regeneration.
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical integrity, controllability during nerve growth, implantation and sterilization.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV परिचय the day-to-day परिचालन of अमरीकी Jewelry and Loan, a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road, between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit, Michigan.
The series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering two million viewers, setting a record as trutv 's most-watched श्रेणी premiere ever.
amoxicillin BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), and abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the drug of choice within the class because it is better absorbed, following oral प्रशासन, than अन्य β-lactam antibiotics.
Amoxicillin is one of the most आम एंटीबायोटिक prescribed for children.
The ड्रग became available in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria, which are resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics, ऐसे as पेनिसिलीन.
For this reason, it is प्रायः संयुक्त साथ clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after उसके सेवा as the 37th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of तभी चार लोगों जो परोसा in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative, Senator, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right, winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और as अध्यक्ष, he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment, '' his coercion of शक्तिशाली राजनेता in अनुक्रम to अग्रिम विधान.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared and the peace process bogged down.
the involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, और अपराधों rates soared, as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended his bid for reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन was elected to succeed him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is क्रमित favorably by some historians because of his domestic policies.
The Big बंग सिद्धान्त cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory, created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, each of whom plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी समूह of episodes.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` दक्षिण '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which बना समाप्ति गुलामी a war goal.
To the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies सब foreshadowed संसार War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Human evolution refers to the evolutionary process leading up to the appearance of modern humans.
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life, the topic usually covers only the evolutionary history of primates, in particular the genus होमो, और the emergence of होमो sapiens as a पृथक प्रजाति of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
The study of human evolution involves many scientific disciplines, including physical मानवशास्त्र, primatology, पुरातत्व, भाषाविज्ञान, विकासवादी psychology, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged इससे अन्य स्तनधारियों परिचय in the Late Cretaceous period, and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene, around.
The family Hominidae diverged इससे the hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years ago, and around, the Ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line, and the earliest bipedal hominin is माना to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin, with Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the same time, about 4-6 million years ago, and either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be हमारी last shared ancestor with them.
The जल्दी bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines and later the genus Homo.
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which evolved around ; the earliest species for which वहीँ is धनात्मक प्रमाण of use of stone tools.
The brains of these early hominins यहूद about the same size as that of a chimpanzee.
During the next million years a process of encephalization began, और साथ the आगमन of Homo erectus in the fossil record, cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave Africa, and these species spread through Africa, Asia, और यूरोपीय between.
It is believed कि these species were the first to use fire and complex tools.
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory, modern humans evolved in Africa possibly from Homo heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor और migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago, replacing local populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically modern humans, evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago.
Recent DNA प्रमाण suggests कि अनेक haplotypes of neanderthal उत्पत्ति are present among all non-African populations, and Neanderthals and other hominids, such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago.
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture, language, and specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 years ago according to many anthropologists although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span.
Lisa Cuddy, M.D., is a fictional अक्षर on the Fox network medical drama House.
She is portrayed by Lisa Edelstein.
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and hospital व्यवस्थापक of the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey.
वो भी becomes हाउस 's love interest through the years to start a relationship with him in season seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of season seven 's finale `` चलती On ``.
Track and field is a sport comprising various competitive athletic प्रतियोगिताओं आधारित on कार्यशील, jumping, and throwing.
The name of the sport derives इससे the प्रतियोगिता venue : a stadium with an oval running track around a grass field.
The throwing and jumping कार्यक्रम generally take place in the central enclosed area.
Track and field falls under the umbrella sport of एथलेटिक्स, जिससे भी includes road running, cross country running, and race walking.
The two most prestigious international track and field competitions are held under the banner of एथलेटिक्स : the athletics competition at the Olympic Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics.
The International Association of Athletics Federations is the international governing body for track and field.
Track and field events are generally individual sports साथ एथलीट challenging each other to decide a single victor.
The racing events are won by the खिलाड़ी साथ the तीव्रतम समय, जबकि the jumping and throwing events are won by the athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest.
The running events हैं categorised as sprints, middle and long-distance events, relays, and hurdling.
Regular jumping कार्यक्रम शामिल long जम्प, triple jump, high jump and pole vault, while the most common throwing events are shot put, javelin, discus and hammer.
There are also `` combined events '', such as heptathlon and decathlon, in which एथलीट compete in a number of the above events.
Records are kept of the best performances in specific events, at world and national levels, right down to a personal level.
However, if एथलीट हैं deemed to have violated the event 's rules or regulations, they are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased.
In North America, the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in general, बल्कि than specifically track and field events.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was a war waged by a U.N.-authorized Coalition force from 34 nations led by the संयुक्त राज्य, विरूद्ध इराकी in जवाब to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait.
The war is also known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf War, First गल्फ युद्ध, गल्फ War I, or the First Iraq War, before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was met with international condemnation, and brought immediate economic sanctions विरूद्ध Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into सऊदी अरब, और urged other countries to send their own forces to the scene.
An array of nations joined the Coalition.
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S., with Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and Egypt as leading योगदानकर्ता, in कि order.
Saudi Arabia paid around US $ 36 billion of the us $ 60 अरब cost.
The war was marked by the beginning of live news on the front lines of the fight, with the primacy of the U.S. संजाल सीएनएन.
The war has also earned the nickname Video Game War after the daily broadcast images on फलक the u.S. बमवर्षक दौरान आपरेशन Desert Storm.
The initial conflict to expel इराकी सैनिकों from Kuwait began with an aerial bombardment on 17 January 1991.
This was followed by a ground उत्पीड़न on 24 फ़रवरी.
This was a decisive victory for the गठबन्धन शक्तियां, जो liberated Kuwait and advanced into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased their advance, and declared a cease-fire 100 hours बाद the मैदान अभियान प्रारंभ.
Aerial and ground combat was confined to Iraq, Kuwait, and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
Iraq launched Scud missiles against Coalition military targets in Saudi Arabia और विरूद्ध इसराईल.
The nickel, in American usage, is a five- cent coin issued by the United राज्य मिंट.
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % निकल, the piece has been struck since 1866.
The चांदी हाफ dime, equal to five cents, had been issued since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused economic hardship, driving gold and silver from circulation ; in जवाब, in place of low-value coins, the government at first issued paper currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency note बाद स्पेंसर M. Clark, head of the Currency Bureau ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ), placed his own portrait on the denomination.
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent टुकड़े, बगैर अनमोल metal, Congress also authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866.
The आरंभिक डिज़ाइन of the Shield nickel was struck until 1883, then replaced by the Liberty Head nickel.
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to increase the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 and 2005, special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix Schlag 's original reverse ( or `` tails '' side ), हालांकि a नई obverse, by Jamie Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than eleven cents to उपज a निकल ; the मिंट is exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals.
A poster with flowers or clusters of flowers उत्पादित by बारह प्रजाति of flowering plants from different families
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division magnoliophyta, भी पुकारा angiosperms ).
The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a यांत्रिकी लिये the संघ of शुक्राणु with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same flower ).
Some flowers produce diaspores बगैर fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
पुष्प contain sporangia and are the site where gametophytes develop.
Flowers give rise to fruit और बीज.
Many flowers have विकसित to be attractive to animals, so as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants, flowers have long been admired and used by humans to beautify their environment, and also as objects of romance, ritual, religion, medicine and as a source of food.
the mcdonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
It is considered among the most successful modern fighters, with over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट victories with no losses in dogfights.
following समीक्षाएँ of proposals, the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter.
the त्रिभुज पहला उड़ाया in July 1972, and entered service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the Eagle has been exported to इसराईल, जापानी, सऊदी अरब, and other nations.
The F-15 was originally envisioned as a pure air superiority aircraft.
Its डिज़ाइन शामिल a द्वितीयक ground-attack capability that was largely unused.
The design proved लचीली पर्याप्त कि an all-weather strike derivative, the F-15E Strike Eagle, was later developed, and entered service in 1989.
The F-15 Eagle is expected to be in सेवा साथ the U.S. Air Force past 2025.
Mimio is a brand name of a line of technology products aimed at the शिक्षा मार्केट.
The primary products are focused around कंप्यूटर whiteboard interactive teaching devices.
MimioCapture devices भी allow उपयोक्ता to capture all of the ink strokes that are written on the whiteboard.
जब used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard.
The product line was originally designed by Virtual Ink.
On October 4, 2006 newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line.
rahab of Jericho
Rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the Book of Joshua, a woman who lived in जेरिको in the Promised Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all English अनुवाद of Joshua describe her as a harlot or prostitute.
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de los Estados Americanos, Portuguese : Organização dos Estados Americanos, French : Organisation des états américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948, and has its मुख्यालय in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., United States.
Its members are the 35 स्वतंत्र राज्य of the Americas.
चूंकि 26 may 2005, the सचिव सामान्य of oas रै महरूम जोस मिगुएल insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; स्पेनी : cristóbal colón ; पुर्तगाली : Cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 October 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer, navigator, and colonizer, born in the Republic of Genoa, in what is today northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain, he completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general European awareness of the American continents.
Those voyages, and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade रूट और colonies, कोलंबस 's speculative proposal, to reach the East Indies by sailing westward, eventually received the support of the Spanish crown, which saw in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia.
During his first voyage in 1492, instead of reaching Japan as he had intended, कोलंबस उतरा in the बहामा archipelago, at a locale he named San Salvador.
Over the course of three more voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles, as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central America, claiming them for the Spanish Empire.
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to पहुँचें the americas ( having been preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson in the 11th century ), Columbus 's voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the Americas, inaugurating a period of European exploration, conquest, and colonization that lasted for several centuries.
They had, therefore, an enormous impact in the historical development of the आधुनिक पश्चिमी world.
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the light of the spreading of the ईसाई religion.
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans, rather than the East Indies he had set out for, Columbus called the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` इंडियंस `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its नियुक्त औपनिवेशिक प्रशासकों in अमेरिका led to उसके गिरफ़्तार और dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the island of Hispaniola in 1500, and later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the Boxer is a नस्ल of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors are fawn or brindled, with or without white markings, which may कवर the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad, short skulls ), and have a square muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), बहुत दमदार जबड़े, और a शक्तिशाली काटना आदर्श लिये hanging on to large prey.
The Boxer was bred from the Old English Bulldog and the अभी विलुप्त bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers were first exhibited in a dog show for St. bernards in Munich in 1895, the first Boxer club being founded the next year.
Based on 2012 American Kennel क्लबों आंकडे, Boxers held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United States for the third consecutive year.
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects host bus adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार devices such as hard disk drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ), offering several advantages over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ), native hot swapping, faster data transfer through higher signalling rates, and अधिक कुशल ट्रांसफ़र through an ( वैकल्पिक ) i/o queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed serial cable over दो pairs of conductors.
In contrast, parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit wide data bus with अनेक अतिरिक्त support और कंट्रोल signals, all operating at much lower frequency.
to ensure पिछड़ा संगतता साथ legacy ATA software and applications, SATA uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer डेस्कटॉप और लैपटॉप कंप्यूटर, and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications.
SATA 's market share in the desktop PC market was 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded अनुप्रयोग कि उपयोग compactflash storage, even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA.
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications originate from The Serial ATA अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( aka.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
The sata-io समूह collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, and publishes the interoperability specifications, the test cases, and plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the sata सामग्री स्वामित्व is transferred to other industry bodies : primarily the INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA, the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ).
The complete specification from SATA-IO.
The शेष of इस आलेख होगा try to use the terminology and specifications of SATA-IO.
The history of the Internet began with the development of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the अंतरजाल जब a संदेश थी भेजा over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California, Los Angeles ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
पैकेट switched संजाल ऐसे as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in which अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined together into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) was standardized, and consequently, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET थी decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when nsfnet थी decommissioned, निकालना the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary प्रभाव on संस्कृति और कॉमर्स, सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), internet2, और नेशनल LambdaRail.
increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, commerce, entertainment, और सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle, which was released on 8 November 2010.
Boyle hinted that the एल्बम has a 1960s feel `` because that was [ her ] era ''.
on 30 नवम्बर 2011, the एल्बम प्राप्त a नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन परंपरागत पॉप गायन एल्बम.
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a famous imagist poem by William Carlos Williams.
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric ब्रायन डम्बल्डोर is a major character and protagonist of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
For most of the series, he is the हेडमास्टर of the wizarding school Hogwarts.
As part of his backstory, it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of the फीनिक्स, an organisation dedicated to fighting the main antagonist of the series, Lord Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of हैरी कुम्हार and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
After Harris ' death, Michael Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the बाकी films.
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore, which is an Early Modern English word लिये `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone कि is उत्पादित in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body.
It acts to reduce blood calcium ( Ca2+ ), opposing the प्रभाव of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ).
Calcitonin has been मिला in fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals, as its function is usually not significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis.
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein family.
A mousepad with a padded wrist rest.
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a सतह for placing and moving a computer mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing a सतह to allow the ट्रैकिंग LED or ball ( in former models ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter.
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded wrist rest.
The stadium seen from above in 1980
December 29, 2002 implosion
The Riverfront Stadium साईट in June, 2006.
This photo was taken from the western concourse of ग्रेट American Ball Park.
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is अभी occupied by the लाल ' हॉल of कीर्ति और Museum and Main Street, which was extended when the new park was built.
The Cincinnati Bengals ' पॉल भूरा Stadium is in the distance.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ), was the home of the Cincinnati Reds National League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League team.
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati, the stadium was best known as the home of `` The Big Red Machine ``, as the Reds were often called in the 1970s.
Construction began on फ़रवरी 1, 1968, और was completed at a cost of less than $ 50 million.
On June 30, 1970, the Reds hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening, with Hank आरोन hitting the पहला कभी घर run at Riverfront.
Two weeks later on July 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home plate between Reds star Pete Rose and catcher Ray fosse of the क्लीवलैंड इंडियंस.
In September 1996, Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a sponsorship deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy कम्पनी, cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to make room for Great American Ball Park, the seating capacity at Cinergy फ़ील्ड थी घटाया to 39,000.
There was a विशाल wall in Center Field visible after the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
the स्टेडियम थी demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
nexen टायर is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in Yangsan, South Gyeongsang Province, and Seoul, both in South Korea.
Its major domestic competitors are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires.
The company 's name is reflected in the company slogan, `` Next सदी Tire. ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority of people in a country or group who do नहीं एक्स्प्रेस उनके राय publicly.
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by u.S. अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड Nixon in a November 3, 1969, speech in which he said, `` And so tonight—to you, the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the time, who did not join in the counterculture, and who did not participate in public discourse.
Nixon along with many others saw इस समूह of Middle Americans as being overshadowed in the media by the more vocal minority.
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people who have died, and others have प्रयुक्त it पहले और बाद Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world.
Sam, a rhesus monkey, flew to an altitude of 88 km in 1959.
( नासा )
Before humans went into space, several animals were launched into स्पेस, सहित numerous monkeys, so that scientists could investigate the biological effects of space travel.
The United States launched flights containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985.
France launched two monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट in 1967.
The Soviet संघ और रूस launched monkeys between 1983 and 1996.
Most monkeys were anesthetized before lift-off.
Overall thirty-two बंदरों उड़ाया in the स्पेस कार्यक्रम ; none flew more than once.
Numerous back-up monkeys also went through the कार्यक्रम लकिन never flew.
Monkeys from several species were used, including rhesus monkeys, cynomolgus monkeys, squirrel monkeys, and pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes rather than बंदरों ) were also used.
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks, originally redundant array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
Data is वितरित across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '', depending on the level of redundancy and performance required.
The term `` RAID '' was first पारिभाषित by David Patterson, Garth A. Gibson, and Randy Katz at the University of California, Berkeley in 1987.
विपणक representing उद्योग RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of independent disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can divide और replicate data among multiple physical drives : RAID is an example of storage virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive.
The different schemes or architectures are named by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
Each scheme provides a different संतुलन between the key goals : reliability and availability, performance and capacity.
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide सुरक्षा against unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors, as well as whole disk failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be divided into विशाल lymphocytes और small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T कोशिकाएं and B cells.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy फिल्मी लिखा and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen.
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski, an unemployed Los Angeles slacker और avid bowler, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
बाद a मामला of mistaken identity, The Dude is introduced to a millionaire also named Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he आयोग the यार to deliver the ransom to secure her release.
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman ) योजनाएं to रखना the पूरा ransom.
Steve Buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, David Huddleston, Julianne Moore, Tara Reid, and John Turturro also star in the film, which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The अजनबी '', निभाई by Sam Elliott.
The film is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond Chandler.
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically, and deals साथ the वर्ण trying to सुलझाना a mystery, as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant. ''
The असली स्कोर थी रचित by Carter Burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big lebowski थी a निराशा at the U.S. box office and received mixed reviews at the time of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time, and the film has become a cult favorite, noted for its idiosyncratic वर्ण, सपना sequences, unconventional dialogue, and eclectic soundtrack.
सेवेरस Snape is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series written by J.K. Rowling.
In the first novel of the series, he is hostile toward Harry and is built up to be the primary antagonist until the final chapters.
As the series progresses, Snape 's character becomes अधिक परतदार and complex.
Rowling does not fully reveal the details of his true loyalties until the end of the final book, Harry कुम्हार और the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the series, snape 's portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts, हालांकि in the sixth novel he teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts, a position which he was known to have desired throughout the series.
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of हॉग्वार्ट्स in the final novel.
Rowling has described him as `` a gift of a अक्षर ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of Native American origin, that is common in the Southern United States and मुख्यतः खाया at breakfast.
Modern grits are commonly बना of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the world such as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` तत्काल grits '' have been processed to speed cooking.
the शब्द `` grits '' derives from the Old English word `` grytt, '' meaning coarse meal.
This word originally referred to wheat and अन्य porridges अभी known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize, अनजान in यूरोपीय in the मध्य Ages, is a food derived from corn ( a New World plant ) and `` corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically, in the American South the word was invariably singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf. such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( इससे a native American Muskogee word ).
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized अंडा बाद धारणा.
Later during गर्भावस्था it is बना by the developing placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore, elevated स्तर measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the काउंटर hcg आहार products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
The Las Vegas Strip संसार of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every देश मगर क्यूबा और उत्तर Korea.
It is produced by The coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, और is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, produce finished उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail स्टोर्स and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola उद्यमों, which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food सेवा distributors.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी रै, on अवसर, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, coca-cola चेरी, coca-cola शून्य, coca-cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's most valuable brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of independence, who is charged with representing the interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights.
In some countries an Inspector General, Citizen Advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of a नेशनल ombudsman, and may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or municipal government, and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or भी कार्य लिये, a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a newspaper, for an NGO, or for a professional regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the legislature, the executive, or an organization ( or, less frequently, elected by the constituency कि he or she serves ), the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them, usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify प्रणालीगत मुद्दे अग्रणी to poor service or breaches of people 's rights.
At the national level, most ombudsmen have a चौड़ी जनादेश to deal with the entire public sector, and sometimes also elements of the private sector ( for example, contracted service providers ).
In some cases, there is a more प्रतिबंधित mandate, for example with particular sectors of society.
More recent developments have included the creation of specialised Children 's ombudsman और सूचना कमिश्नर एजेंसियों.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g. the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ).
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to promoting और protecting इंसान अधिकारों, the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution.
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by most governments and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the यूरोपीय संघ.
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is usually free of चार्ज.
Sign at Georgetown University वॉशिंगटन DC
चिह्न in Banjul, The Gambia
Autumn in नई इंग्लैण्ड, watercolor, Maurice Prendergast.
Ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the कस्बा of स्टो, Vermont
New England is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
New England is bordered by नई यॉर्क राज्य to the southwest, Quebec to the northwest, and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east.
In one of the earliest अंग्रेज़ी settlements in North America, Pilgrims from England first settled in New England in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony.
Ten years later, the Puritans settled उत्तर of plymouth उपनिवेश in Boston, thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Over the next 130 years, New England fought in four French and Indian Wars, until the British defeated the French and their native allies in North America.
In the late 18th century, the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament 's efforts to impose new taxes without the सहमति of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government, which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
the confrontation led to खोलें warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the British authorities from New England in spring 1776, and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.
Some of the first movements of American literature, दर्शनशास्त्र, और शिक्षा originated in New England.
The प्रदेश निभाई a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery, and was the first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution.
Today, New England is a major world center of education, high technology, insurance, and medicine.
Boston is its cultural, financial, शैक्षणिक, medical and transportation center.
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as New England towns, which are often governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in New इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse, northern regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Since 1970, voters have more often supported उदार उम्मीदवार at the राज्य and federal level than those of any other region in the United States.
New England is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions whose name does not derive from its भूगोल, and it is the only multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries.
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity set apart from the rest of the country, although the terms of this identity are often contested, combining Puritanism with liberalism, कृषिक life with industry, and isolation with immigration.
आपात !
is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न series that combines the medical drama and action-adventure genres.
It was produced by चिह्नित VII Limited and distributed by Universal Studios.
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on NBC, replacing the two short-lived series The Partners and The Good Life, and ran until September 3, 1977, with six additional two-hour television films दौरान the following two years.
आपात !
was created and produced by जोकर webb और Robert A. Cinader, both of whom were also responsible for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet.
The Eastern Time मण्डल ( et ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of the contiguous United States, parts of Canada and three countries in South America.
Places that use Eastern Standard Time ( EST ) जब observing मानक time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ), when observing daylight saving time ( spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
In the northern भाग of the समय मण्डल, दौरान the second Sunday in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
During the first Sunday in November, at 2:00 a.m. edt, घड़ियाँ are moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus `` duplicating '' one hour.
दक्षिणी भाग of the zone ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving.
Standard form of the आवधिक table.
The colors represent different categories of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the रासायनिक तत्व, व्यवस्थित on the basis of their atomic numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements are प्रस्तुत in order of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of elements, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
the पंक्ति of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are called groups, with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, कोई ऐसे तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown तत्व that would be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's आवधिक table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements इससे परमाणु numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements बाद 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is होने pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by Swedish programmer Markus `` Notch '' persson और बाद developed and published by Mojang.
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha version and, after gradual updates, was published as a full release version on November 18, 2011.
A version for Android was released a month earlier on अक्तूबर 7, और an आईओएस संस्करण was released on November 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the game was released on Xbox 360 as an एक्सबॉक्स Live Arcade game, co-developed by 4J Studios.
All versions of Minecraft प्राप्त आवधिक अद्यतन.
the रचनात्मक और भवन पहलुओं of minecraft allow खिलाड़ी to निर्माण constructions आउट of textured घन in a 3d procedurally उत्पन्न संसार.
Other activities in the खेल शामिल खोजी, gathering resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival, which requires players to acquire resources and maintain their health and hunger ; and creative, where players have an unlimited supply of resources, the ability to fly, and no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the वही as अस्तित्व, differing तभी in परेशानी ; it is set to hardest setting and respawning is disabled, forcing players to delete their worlds upon death.
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award, Best Downloadable Game Award, and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game Developers Choice Awards ; और the दर्शक पुरस्कार, as खूब as the seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a सुनहरी जॉयस्टिक Award in the category Best Downloadable Game.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC and as of January 22, 2013, over 20 लाख copies across all platforms.
The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed, उत्पादित, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
Based on the DC Comics अक्षर बैटमैन, the film is the second part of Nolan 's Batman film series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman, with a returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth, गेरी oldman as जेम्स Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel Dawes ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ), who joins बैटमैन और the पुलिस in combating the नई उठती threat of a दण्ड mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel, and the 1996 series, which retold Two-Face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to Batman in Batman No. 1 ( 1940 ), in a story written by विधेयक उंगली.
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the संयुक्त राज्य, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film कुछ sequences, including the Joker 's first appearance in the film.
On January 22, 2008, some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six months before the film 's release, Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs, leading to intense attention from the दबायें और movie-going public.
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker, but after Ledger 's death, the studio refocused its promotional campaign.
The Dark Knight was released on July 16, 2008 in Australia, on July 18, 2008 in North America, और on July 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever made, the film प्राप्त अत्यधिक धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ और नियत numerous रिकॉर्ड दौरान इसके नाट्य run.
With over $ 1 billion in आय worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time, unadjusted for inflation.
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for Best Sound Editing and Ledger was मरणोपरांत awarded बेहतरीन supporting Actor.
The Dark Knight Rises, the final part of the trilogy, was released on July 20, 2012.
The timeline of रेडियो lists within the history of radio, the technology and events that produced instruments that use radio waves and activities that people undertook.
Later, the history is वर्चस्व by प्रोग्रामिंग और सामग्री, which is closer to general history.
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, Australia.
It was conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon, opening in 1973 after a long gestation कि began साथ उसके competition-winning design in 1957.
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales Government gave the go-ahead लिये work to begin in 1958.
The government 's bold निर्णय to select Utzon 's design is often overshadowed by the scandal that followed.
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour, close to the सिडनी Harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the सीबीडी ), घिरी on three sides by the harbour ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to its name, it houses multiple performance venues.
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world, hosting over 1,500 performances each साल attended by कुछ 1.2 million people.
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies, including the four key resident companies Opera Australia, The Australian Ballet, the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and presents a wide range of productions on its own account.
It is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia, with more than seven million people visiting प्रत्येक साल, 300,000 of whom take a guided tour.
It is administered by the Sydney Opera House Trust, अंतर्गत the New South Wales Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 June 2007, it थी made a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
It is one of the 20th century 's most distinctive buildings and one of the most famous performing कला centres in the world.
A graph of body mass index as a function of body mass and देह ऊँचाई is दिखाया ऊपर.
The dashed lines represent subdivisions within a प्रमुख class.
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further divided into `` कठोर '', `` मॉडरेट '', और `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass अनुक्रमणिका ( बीएमआई ), or quetelet अनुक्रमणिका, is a measure for human body shape based on an individual 's weight and height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the belgian बहुश्रुत Adolphe Quetelet during the course of developing `` social physics ''.
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's body mass विभाजित by the square of their height.
The formulae universally प्रयुक्त in medicine produce a unit of measure of kg/m2.
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart, which displays BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal axis ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines for different values of BMI or रंगों लिये अलग बीएमआई श्रेणी.
† The factor for UK/US इकाई is अधिक precisely 703.06957964, but that level of precision is not meaningful for this calculation.
To work from stone और pounds first multiply the stone by 14 then add the pounds to give the whole mass in pounds ; to work from feet and inches first multiply the feet by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches.
Thomas Paine ( जनवरी 29, 1737 ( ns फ़रवरी 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) was an English-American political activist, author, political theorist and revolutionary.
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution, he inspired the देशप्रेमी in 1776 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता from Britain.
His ideas reflected Enlightenment era rhetoric of transnational human rights.
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by profession, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, England, in the county of Norfolk, paine emigrated to the अंग्रेजों American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution.
His principal contributions were the powerful, widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain, and The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said, `` Without the pen of the लेखक of आम भाव, the तलवार of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the French Revolution.
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ), in भाग a defence of the French Revolution against its critics.
His attacks on British लेखक एडमंड बुर्के led to a विचारण and conviction in absentia in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel.
In 1792, despite not होने समर्थ to speak French, he was elected to the French National Convention.
The girondists regarded him as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Robespierre, regarded उसे as an enemy.
In December 1793, he was arrested and imprisoned in पेरिस, then released in 1794.
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ), his book that advocates deism, promotes reason and freethinking, and argues against institutionalized religion in general और Christian doctrine in particular.
He also लिखा the pamphlet कृषिक इंसाफ ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income.
in 1802, he लौटे to America where he died on June 8, 1809.
Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his उपहास of Christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically, information about adverse drug reactions and adverse effects of other treatments ) for health interventions ( e.g., drugs, diagnostics, devices, therapy protocols ).
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on the quality of the non clinical safety, and health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the देश जहाँ स्वीकृति of the ड्रग or यंत्र is sought.
Previously, many emerging countries did not require local trials for product approvals.
Now, though emerging countries still accept data from U.S./Europe, they also आवश्यकता कुछ local trials.
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development, investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies, and subsequently conduct larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest.
As positive safety and efficacy data are gathered, the number of patients is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in size, and can involve a single research entity in one country or many such entities in multiple countries.
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs, and the burden of paying for all the necessary people and services is usually borne by the sponsor, which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor, a clinical trial is managed by an outsourced partner, such as a contract research organization or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector.
The Green खाड़ी पैकर्स are an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
ग्रीन खाड़ी is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports team in the United States.
The पैकर्स हैं the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by अर्ल `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base and media extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( अधिक than कोई अन्य टोली in the एनएफएल ), सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the Chicago Bears, मिनेसोटा Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is एक of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
इथेनॉल ईंधन is इथेनॉल ( ethyl alcohol ), the same type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages.
It is most often used as a motor ईंधन, mainly as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global gasoline type fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production पहुँचे 22.36 अरब u.S. द्रव गैलन ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), with the United States as the top producer with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 billion liters ), accounting for 62.2 % of global production, followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( GGE ) value of, which means 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one गैलन of गैसोलीन.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States, and together both countries were responsible for 87.1 % of the संसार 's इथेनॉल ईंधन उत्पादन in 2011.
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol, and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic स्त्रोत in 2011.
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend ethanol with gasoline, and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
By December 2011 ब्राज़ील had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a form of renewable energy that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very common crops such as शुगर cane, आलू, manioc and corn.
There has been considerable बहस परिचय कैसा उपयोगी bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline.
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land जरूरी लिये फसलों, as well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production, especially from corn.
Recent developments with cellulosic ethanol उत्पादन और व्यावसायीकरण may allay some of these concerns.
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because cellulose fibers, a major and universal component in plant cells walls, can be प्रयुक्त to उपज ethanol.
According to the International Energy Agency, cellulosic इथेनॉल could allow इथेनॉल fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought.
साब 9-3 SportCombi BioPower.
The second E85 flexifuel model introduced by Saab in the स्वीडिश मार्केट.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 और प्लैक बदला इससे cyrillic to Latin script )
A प्लैक commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया.
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the गति कि बाद became known as Young Bosnia.
सर्बियाई military officers stood behind the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल, and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April 25, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री और निर्माता.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ), and subsequently received दो nominations लिये the अकादमी Award for Best Actress for her roles as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Cold पहाड़ ( 2003 ).
She has won an Academy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, three Screen Actors Guild Awards, and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; और स्थापित herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the human body, the malleus, the incus and the stapes.
They are contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled व्यामोह ( cochlea ).
The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` tiny bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — यूनानी • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It is often thought of as an eschatological Messianic Age or world to come and is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God.
Generally, Christians believe that the New Covenant was instituted at the Last Supper as part of the Eucharist, which in the इन्जील of जॉन शामिल the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant, as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and God that will be in full fruition after the Second Coming of Christ ; that is, it होगा नहीं तभी be in पूरा फलीभूत in believing दिल, लकिन in the भविष्य external world as well.
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in most modern English translations of the New Testament with the saying : `` this cup that is poured आउट लिये तुम is the new covenant in my blood ''.
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New वचन, और that the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant.
as साथ सब covenants between God and man described in the Bible, the New Covenant is considered `` a bond in blood sovereignly administered by God. ''
It has been theorized that the New Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount.
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the अध्यक्ष of the United States documents the most prominent cases of each presidency.
As granted by the Constitution ( Article ii, खण्ड 2, clause 1 ), राष्ट्रपतियों have the power to grant clemency in one or more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon, to commute a sentence, or to rescind a fine.
U.S. Presidents have no शक्ति to grant clemency for crimes prosecuted under state law.
As to the अंतर between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an कार्यपालिका order vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a वाक्य लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th सदी अलोन.
The records of acts of दया were public until 1934.
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was created and records from अध्यक्ष H. W. बुश आगे are now listed.
This सूची includes pardons and commutations.
tampa ( ) is a city in the U.S. state of Florida.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is located on the west coast of फ्लोरिडा, on tampa खाड़ी near the Gulf of Mexico.
The population of Tampa in 2011 थी 346,037.
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety Harbor culture, most notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century, but there were no permanent American or European settlements within today 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the United States Army स्थापित a frontier outpost called Fort Brooke at the mouth of the Hillsborough River, near the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center.
The first civilian residents were pioneers who settled near the fort for सुरक्षा इससे the आसपास Seminole population.
The town grew slowly until the 1880s, जब railroad links, the discovery of phosphate, and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a part of the metropolitan area most commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area.
For U.S. Census purposes, Tampa is part of the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, Florida महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents, making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the state, and the fourth largest in the Southeastern United States, behind Miami, Washington, D.C., and अटलांटा.
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just over 4 million निवासियों and generally includes the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas.
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed an average annual growth of 2.47 percent, or a gain of लगभग 97,000 residents per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the Greater Tampa Bay Market experienced a combined growth rate of 14.8 percent, growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 million और hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area जनसांख्यिकी to have 4,310,524 people and a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 people.
Tampa has a number of sports teams, such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the National Football League, the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League, and the Tampa Bay Storm of the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the North American Soccer लीग खेल उनके घर खेल in neighboring St. Petersburg, Florida.
In 2008, Tampa was ranked as the 5th बेहतरीन outdoor city by Forbes.
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square News ranked tampa as a शीर्ष नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` Gamma '' world city by loughborough University.
according to Loughborough, Tampa ranks alongside other world cities such as Phoenix, Santo Domingo, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market demand from consumers, signaling अधिक माल concentrated in the क्षेत्रफल.
Tampa hosted the 2012 Republican नेशनल सम्मेलन.
The Chevrolet Cavalier was a compact automobile produced from 1982 to 2005 by सामान्य Motors.
Built on the company 's J platform, the cavalier उत्पादित the highest sales in 1984.
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly Cingular Wireless LLC ), is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T Inc. that provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin आइलैंड्स.
AT & T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States and Puerto Rico, behind Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012.
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co. जॉर्जिया, बस बाहर अटलांटा.
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007, a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth, the company acquired the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the असली AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in December 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth.
in जनवरी 2007, Cingular confirmed it would re-brand itself under the AT & T name.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, for both regulatory and brand-awareness कारण दोनो ब्रांड्स यहूद used in the company 's signage and advertising during a transition period.
The transition concluded in late June, just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, AT & T Mobility announced its intention to acquire t-mobile यूएसए इससे Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion.
If it had received government and regulatory approval, AT & T would have had more than 130 million सदस्य.
However, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Communications Commission, and AT & T Mobility 's competitors ( such as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market.
In December 2011, in the face of both governmental and widespread consumer opposition, AT & T withdrew their offer to complete the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) was an American clergyman, activist, and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
He is best known for his role in the उन्नति of सिविल rights using nonviolent civil disobedience.
किंग रै become a national icon in the history of American progressivism.
A Baptist minister, King became a सिविल अधिकारों activist जल्दी in his career.
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped found the Southern ईसाई नेतृत्व सम्मेलन ( SCLC ) in 1957, serving as its first president.
With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against पृथक्करण in albany, जॉर्जिया, in 1962, and organized nonviolent protests in Birmingham, Alabama, that attracted national attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response.
किंग भी helped to व्यवस्थित the 1963 कूच on वॉशिंगटन, जहाँ he वितरित उसके `` i have a सपना `` वाक.
There, he स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as one of the greatest orators in American history.
He also established his प्रतिष्ठा as a कट्टरपंथी, और became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for the rest of his life.
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials, and on one occasion, mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.
On October 14, 1964, King received the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolence.
In 1965, he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the following year, he took the गति north to Chicago.
In the final years of उसके जीवन, किंग विस्तारित उसके फ़ोकस to शामिल poverty and the Vietnam War, alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was planning a national occupation of वॉशिंगटन, D.C., called the Poor People 's Campaign.
King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, in मेम्फिस, टेनेसी.
उसके death was followed by riots in many U.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing King, था महरूम framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ government agents persisted for decades after the shooting, and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King.
King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day was established as a U.S. संघीय holiday in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been renamed in उसके honor.
A memorial statue on the National मॉल थी खोली to the public in 2011.
The tiger ( पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to.
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the polar bear and the brown bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark vertical धारियाँ on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside.
It has exceptional stout दांत, and the canines are the longest among living felids with a crown height of as much as or even.
In zoos, tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years, which also seems to be their आयु in the wild.
वे हैं territorial और generally एकान्त but social animals, often requiring large contiguous areas of habitat that support their prey requirements.
This, coupled with the fact that they are स्वदेशी to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी places on Earth, has caused significant conflicts with humans.
Tigers once ranged widely across एशिया, from Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their ऐतिहासिक दायरा, और have महरूम extirpated इससे southwest and central Asia, from the islands of Java and Bali, and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, they range इससे the Siberian taiga to open grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The बाकी छह बाघ subspecies have been classified as endangered by IUCN.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, down from around 100,000 at the start of the 20th century, with most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other.
Major reasons for population decline include आवास विनाश, habitat fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by tigers is estimated at less than, a 41 % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
Tigers are among the most recognisable and popular of the संसार 's charismatic megafauna.
They have featured prominently in ancient mythology and folklore, and continue to be चित्रित in modern films and literature.
Tigers appear on many flags, coats of arms, and as mascots for sporting teams.
The Bengal बाघ is the national animal of both India and Bangladesh.
the सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon डाइऑक्साइड और अन्य compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid झिल्लियों.
These reactions लो the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ, collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation, कटौती reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs only when लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ.
Plants do not carry out the Calvin साईकिल by night.
They, instead, रिलीज sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
A linen handkerchief with pulled thread कढ़ाई around the edges
Linen cloth recovered from qumran Cave 1 near the Dead Sea.
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the मछली of the flax संयंत्र, Linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, but when it is made into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin और cognates साथ the लैटिन नाम लिये the flax plant linum, and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ).
This word history has given rise to a number of other terms in अंग्रेज़ी, the सबसे notable of जिससे is the English word line, derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
Textiles in a linen weave texture, even when made of cotton, गांजा और अन्य non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen ''.
Such fabrics generally have their own specific names other than linen ; for example, fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam.
The सामूहिक पद `` linens `` is still often used generically to describe a class of woven and even knitted bed, bath, table and kitchen textiles.
The name linens is retained because traditionally, linen was used for many of these items.
in the पास्ट, the शब्द `` linens '' थी भी प्रयुक्त to औसत lightweight undergarments ऐसे as शर्ट, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a शब्द भी cognate साथ लिनेन ), और detachable कमीज़ छल्लों और cuffs, जिससे यहूद historically बना लगभग exclusively out of linen.
The inside cloth परत of ठीक कम्पोजिट कपडे garments ( as for example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen, and this is the origin of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the संसार : their history goes back many thousands of years.
Fragments of straw, seeds, fibers, yarns, and various types of fabrics which date back to about 8000 BC have महरूम मिला in स्विस झील dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers मिला in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes प्रयुक्त as currency in ancient Egypt.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because it was seen as a symbol of light and purity, और as a प्रदर्शक of माल.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, were very fine for उनके दिन, लकिन are coarse compared to modern linen.
Today, linen is usually an expensive textile, and is produced in relatively small quantities.
It has a long `` staple '' ( व्यक्तिगत fiber length ) relative to cotton and other natural fibers.
Many products are made of linen : aprons, bags, towels ( swimmers, bath, beach, body and wash towels ), napkins, bed linens, linen चौके, धावक, chair covers, and men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition लडे by the वरिष्ठ men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions हैं स्पेन, जो won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ).
The 19 संसार कप tournaments have been won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have won five टाइम्स, and they are the only team to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
the संसार कप is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
The is an expansion device for the वी रिमोट वीडियो खेल controller for the Wii that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion.
According to Nintendo, the sensor in the device supplements the accelerometer और सेंसर बार capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time.
The वी 's successor console, the Wii U, supports the Wii MotionPlus and its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
majulah singapura ( Onward Singapore ) is the national anthem of Singapore.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official functions of the City Council of Singapore, the song was selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon full independence in 1965, Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as सिंगापुर 's नेशनल anthem.
By law the anthem may only be sung with its original Malay lyrics, although there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the गान in सिंगापुर 's तीन other official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the key of G major, in 2001 the नेशनल गान थी officially relaunched in the lower key of F major as this was said to allow for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement ''.
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day, during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are विशेषकर प्रोत्साहित to गाओ the नेशनल गान on अवसरों of नेशनल जश्न or नेशनल significance such as at the National Day Parade, at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments, and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine, 1541.
shipbuilding is the construction of ships and floating vessels.
it सामान्यतः takes place in a specialized facility known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, also called shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation that traces its roots to before अंकित इतिहास.
Shipbuilding and ship repairs, both commercial and सैन्य, हैं referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The construction of boats is a similar activity पुकारा boat building.
The dismantling of जहाजों is called ship breaking.
Wakonda is a town in Clay County, South डकोटा, United States.
The population थी 321 at the 2010 census.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated स्थान of the United States of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` includes a किस्में of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल multiple incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties कि हैं नहीं a भाग of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident जब considering U.S. metropolitan area populations.
alt=Larger flashcart, shown साथ small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices हैं डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to स्टोर a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images, homebrew video games and downloaded commercial games ( since the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ).
Licensed developers, however, can use a blue बुद्धिमान प्रणालियों नाइट्रो emulator बक्सा to flash cards.
These devices are also ज्ञात as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two main classes of flashcarts : older devices which fit in Slot-2 ( the Game Boy Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) डिवाइस have महरूम historically सस्ता due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use with Game Boy Advance ), but require a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to use the touch screen and other DS features.
Second-generation डिवाइस ( those जिससे तभी use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA homebrew, but became less expensive and easier to use, rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price.
First-generation डिवाइस शामिल GBA flash cartridges, GBAMP CF, SuperCard, and M3.
Second-generation devices include R4 Revolution, CycloDS, G6 Real and DS-X.
The storage device either contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a slot for a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage devices with a memory-card स्लॉट प्रायः have more storage capacity than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ), memory-card capacity is usually measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and Game Boy Advance ROMs ; special features ( such as क्षमता to खेल मीडिया files ) ; physical size and cost.
Strictly speaking, a storage device is not necessary for DS with FlashMe संस्थापित क्युकी homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB.
However, this is not an easily-portable method because the DS needs to be within range of a उपयुक्त wi-fi card.
हैं अमरीकी people of Japanese heritage.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian American communities, but in recent decades, it has become the छठे largest समूह at roughly 1,304,286, सहित those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were found in California with 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, New York with 37,780, Washington with 35,008, and Illinois with 17,542.
Southern California has the largest japanese-american population in North America.
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which हाइलाइट significant उपलब्धियाँ और milestones based upon Billboard magazine 's singles charts, most notably the Billboard Hot 100.
This list spans from the issue दिनाँक जनवरी 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard hot 100 began साथ the समस्या dated August 4, 1958, and is currently the standard popular music chart in the United States.
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100, Billboard published four singles चार्ट : `` बेहतरीन विक्रेता in Stores '', `` Most Played by Jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
ये चार्ट, जिससे ranged from 20 to 100 slots, were phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart history, their data is included for computational purposes, और to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era, unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ).
V is an American science fiction television श्रेणी कि भागा लिये two seasons on ABC, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the new series chronicles the arrival on Earth of a technologically उन्नत एलियन प्रजाति जिससे ostensibly comes in peace, but actually has sinister motives.
V stars Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, Morris Chestnut, Joel Gretsch, Logan Huffman, Charles Mesure, Elizabeth Mitchell, लौरा Vandervoort and Scott Wolf, and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum, Yves Simoneau, Scott Peters, and Jace Hall.
The series was produced by The स्कॉट पीटर्स कम्पनी, HDFilms and Warner Bros. Television.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in जिससे the भागीदार use a Global Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the date they found it and signs it with their established code name.
After signing into the log, the cache must be placed back exactly where the व्यक्ति मिला it.
Larger containers such as प्लास्टिक भंडार containers ( tupperware or समान ) or ammunition boxes can also contain items for trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group that was originally composed of krs-one, d-nice, और dj स्कॉट La Rock.
dj स्कॉट la चट्टान थी murdered on August 27, 1987, months after the release of BDP 's debut album, Criminal Minded.
The name of the group, Boogie Down, derives from a nickname for the South Bronx section of The Bronx, one of the पाँच boroughs of नई यॉर्क नगर.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of जीवन in the दक्षिण bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap.
A नगरपालिका bond is a bond issued by a local government, or their agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states, शहरों, काउंटी, redevelopment एजेंसियों, special-purpose जिले, स्कूल जिले, पब्लिक utility districts, publicly owned airports and seaports, and any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level.
नगरपालिका bonds may be सामान्य obligations of the issuer or secured by specified revenues.
In the United States, interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the state in which they हैं जारी, although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt.
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is sold, municipal bonds are free to व्यापार at कोई समय एकबार वे are purchased by the investor.
Professional traders regularly trade and retrade the same bonds अनेक टाइम्स a week.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood, Spencer Davis and muff winwood, and originally performed by The Spencer Davis Group.
The basic riff of the song was borrowed from the Homer Banks song `` ( Ai n't That ) A Lot of Love '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' थी a UK # 2 in the Autumn of 1966 and a US # 7.
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone पत्रिका 's सूची of the 500 महानतम Songs of All Time.
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is different from that issued in the US on the United Artists label, being slower, and lacking the backing vocals और `` सजीव sounding '' प्रदर्शन found on the US single.
( The US version has more often been used on reissue CDs, even those coming from Europe. )
The single सुविधाएँ the sound of the Hammond B-3 organ.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of information related to films, टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, और वीडियो games.
This includes actors, production crew personnel, and fictional characters प्रदर्शित in ये तीन विज़ुअल entertainment media.
It is one of the most लोकप्रिय ऑनलाइन entertainment destinations, with over 100 million unique users each month and a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb was launched on अक्तूबर 17, 1990, and in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, आईएमडीबी था 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( शामिल एपीसोड ) and 5,192,493 personalities in its database, as well as 43 million registered users.
The website has an एलेक्सा rank of 48.
Fibre Channel Host बस एडाप्टर ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
SCSI मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware, a host controller, host adapter, or host bus adapter ( HBA ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to other network and भंडार डिवाइस.
The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI, fibre चैनल और esata डिवाइस.
However, devices for connecting to IDE, Ethernet, FireWire, USB and other प्रणालियों may also be called host adapters.
Recently, the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs, which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines.
वहीँ हैं also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ).
cashmere Scarves
Modern मेन 's cashmere sweaters for sale.
Cashmere wool, usually simply known as cashmere, is a fiber प्राप्त इससे cashmere goats and other types of goat.
The word cashmere गर्भाशयी इससे an बूढ़ा spelling of Kashmir.
cashmere is ठीक in texture, strong, light, and soft.
Garments made from it provide बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन.
In the United States, under the U.S. Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, as amended, ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), राज्य कि a ऊन or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
ऐसे ऊन उत्पाद is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool product does नहीं exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 microns.
The average fiber diameter may be subject to a coefficient of variation around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the United States, with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard, in the Midwest, on the West Coast and in the Southwest.
The company was founded in 1975 and is based in woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced that it था दायर लिये bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture retailers with US $ 114 million in sales for the year ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently उभरा from Chapter 11 under the control of its major supplier, the Haining Mengnu Group.
Egg roll is a term used for many different भोजन around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in मेनलैंड China, many Chinese-speaking regions of Asia, and Chinese immigrant communities around the world.
Egg rolls as referred to in China.
In Guangdong and Hong Kong, अंडा फेंकें प्रायः refers to biscuit roll.
This is a प्रकार of biscuit.
The ingredient शामिल अंडा, flour and sugar.
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton and Hong Kong, this is प्रायः बना साथ vegetable.
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are not as commonly consumed in the north and western parts of China.
In American Chinese cuisine, an egg roll is a savory dish typically served as an क्षुधावर्धक.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, pork or shrimp, cabbage, carrots, tomatoes, bean sprouts and other vegetables, और तब गहन fried.
This variety of the egg roll is very common and popular, across even regional varieties of American Chinese food, and is often included as भाग of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, Canada, open-ended eggrolls are a jewish-chinese संलयन डिश.
They can be either कोषेर certified or merely kosher style.
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the शारीरिक और emotional तनाव caused from an injury ( see also pain and suffering ).
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches, temporary and स्थाई सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप, potential shortening of life, depression or scarring.
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury, it is common for someone to seek money both in compensation for actual money that is lost and for the pain and stress संबद्ध with virtually any injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is भाग of the `` सामान्य damages '' section of the claimant 's claim, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, arbitration ( both of which may be court annexed or non litigated दावा ) as खूब as in routine insurance settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by lawyers often present demands to insurers to settle लिये धन.
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies often set out क्षतिपूर्ति कि हैं similarly used in the court litigated pleadings.
Demands are usually written summaries of a claimant 's medical care and the facts which resulted in the injury.
Sample of a Medallion signature गारंटी stampin
the United States and Canada, a medallion signature guarantee is a special signature guarantee for the ट्रांसफ़र of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the signature is genuine and the financial institution accepts liability लिये कोई जालसाजी.
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing अनधिकृत transfers and possible investor losses.
They also limit the देयता of the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट जो स्वीकृत the certificates.
Different institutions have different policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the guarantee and whether वे charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ).
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature of someone who has नहीं already been their customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the भाव कि a `` हस्ताक्षर गारंटी '' is a प्रमाणन by the institution that the signature is authentic, and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily.
Some banks may no longer provide this service, however, many still do as well as other financial institutions such as a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions.
At their sole discretion, these institutions may still decline to provide the Medallion Signature guarantees.
When US citizens are abroad, some financial institutions may accept United States Embassy seals, in प्लेस of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on Terminal Island, Los Angeles County, California, March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the Great American streetcar कांड ) refers to दोषारोपण और convictions in relation to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45 cities including Baltimore, Newark, Los Angeles, New York City, ओकलैंड और सैन डिएगो और परिवर्तित उन्हें into bus operation.
Several of the कंपनियाँ शामिल यहूद convicted in 1949 of षड्यंत्र to monopolize अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स लकिन यहूद acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the स्वामित्व of ये कंपनियाँ.
Some suggest that इस कार्यक्रम निभाई a कुंजी भूमिका in the मनाही of पब्लिक पारगमन in शहरों आरपार the संयुक्त States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, who first drew attention to the program in 1946, and then Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness.
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate विनाश of streetcars was part of a larger strategy to push the United States into automobile dependency.
Others say that independent economic factors brought about परिवर्तन in the transit system, including the Great Depression, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, labor unrest, market forces, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others fell into simplistic conspiracy theory thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, GM waged a war on electric traction.
it थी बेशक an all out assault, but by no means the single reason for the failure of rapid transit.
Also, it is just as clear that actions and inactions by सरकारी contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport systems based on streetcars or trams, including Newark, Philadelphia, San फ्रांसिस्को, पिट्सबर्ग, और बोस्टन ; अन्य हैं re-introducing them.
The story has been explored several times in print, film and other media, notably in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia.
Corwin House, Salem, Massachusetts, निर्मित ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the colonial period of the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ), French Colonial, Spanish Colonial, Dutch Colonial and Georgian.
These styles are associated with the houses, churches and government इमारतें of the काल इससे about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by American bandleader Glenn Miller.
It topped the charts in 1940 in the U.S. and one year later was प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म सूर्य Valley Serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) शामिल the 1939 Glenn Miller recording on RCA Bluebird on the NPR 100, the list of `` The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century ''.
NEPTUNE लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs और विश्वविद्यालयों around the world.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research, while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely संचालित crawler.
A gramophone record, commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ), vinyl record ( in reference to vinyl, the material most commonly प्रयुक्त बाद परिचय 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a रिकार्ड '', is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove प्रायः starts near the periphery and ends near the center of the disc.
फोनोग्राफ रिकॉर्ड हैं generally वर्णित by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive accuracy, or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '', `` Orthophonic '', `` full-range '', etc. ), and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono ``, `` stereo ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
फोनोग्राफ रिकॉर्ड यहूद the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder, with which it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the late 1980s, डिजिटल मीडिया था gained a larger market share, and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured and sold in the 21st सदी.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 million units shipped, the most in any year since 1998 and the format has जारी to धीरे regain popularity.
They are विशेषकर प्रयुक्त by DJs and audiophiles for many types of music.
As of 2013, vinyl records continue to be प्रयुक्त for distribution.
Grassland in the सांता Rosa Plateau, California.
Grassland in the Antelope घाटी, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the Flint Hills of northeastern कान्सास.
A घासभूमि in the Philippines.
An भीतरी मंगोलियाई grassland in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the वनस्पति is वर्चस्व by grasses ( Poaceae ), however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on all महाद्वीपों except Antarctica.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट मैदान और कैलिफ़ोर्निया in उत्तर America, native grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species, whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation.
Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the धरती.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the शीतोष्ण grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ), which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis, also called henna tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant, the एकमात्र प्रजाति in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The English name `` henna '' comes from the Arabic ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also प्रयुक्त लिये डाई preparations derived from the plant, and for the art of temporary tattooing based on those dyes.
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin, hair, and fingernails, as well as fabrics including Silk, wool और चमड़े.
Additionally, the name is misused for other skin and hair dyes, such as black henna or neutral henna, which are not derived इससे the संयंत्र.
a पतला फिल्मी is a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings हैं the प्रमुख अनुप्रयोग benefiting from thin-film construction.
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror, which typically रै a thin metal coating on the back of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface.
The process of silvering was once commonly used to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film कोटिंग ( कम than a nanometer thick ) is used to produce two-way mirrors.
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) हैं typically enhanced when the thin-film coating consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of alternating thin films of different materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting इलेक्ट्रॉनिक phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films लिये उपयोग as कंप्यूटर memory.
It is also being applied to दवाएँ, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to produce thin-film batteries.
Thin films हैं also used in dye-sensitized solar cells.
Ceramic thin films हैं in wide use.
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of interest for protection of substrate materials against corrosion, oxidation and wear.
In particular, the use of such coatings on cutting tools can extend the life of these वस्तुएं by अनेक आदेश of परिमाण.
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film inorganic oxide materials, called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides, which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person shooter video game विकसित by एपिक खेल और प्रकाशित by microsoft खेल studios.
It was initially released as an विशेष शीर्षक लिये the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America, Australia, and most of Europe and included a `` Limited Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year later, featuring new content including additional campaign स्तर, a नई एकाधिक खेल विधि, और खेल लिये खिड़कियाँ सजीव कार्यक्षमता.
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to save the remaining human inhabitants of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde.
The player assumes the role of Marcus Fenix ( but can also play as Dominic Santiago ), a former prisoner और war-hardened सिपाही.
The game is based on the use of cover and strategic fire for the player to advance through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
The game also features अनेक ऑनलाइन multiplayer game modes for up to eight players.
गियर्स of War sold over three million copies in just ten weeks and was the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th बेहतरीन selling Xbox 360 game of all time.
The game has since sold over five लाख copies by September 2008.
The game was well प्राप्त by आलोचकों, who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals, and it won several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the विकास of the Gears of War franchise, including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up, Gears of War 3, which was released on September 20, 2011, after having initially been set to have been released on April 5, 2011, the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.
Adaptations to books, comics, as well as a विशेषता फिल्मी हैं to be expected.
A पेड़ grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith.
The story focuses on an Irish-American family in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, नई यॉर्क City.
The novel is नियत in the first and second decades of the 20th century.
The किताब थी an immense success.
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven, देशी to चीन और Taiwan, now considered invasive, and common in the vacant lots of New York City.
World मैप साथ the intertropical zone highlighted in red.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where सब बारह महीने have mean temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °F ).
The tropics is a region of the Earth surrounding the Equator.
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at approximately n और the tropic of मकर in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
The tropics are also referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ).
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun reaches a पाइंट सीधे ओवरहेड at तनिक once during the solar year.
The tropics are distinguished from the other climatic and biomatic regions of Earth, the मध्य latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions on either side of the equatorial zone.
For the INXS song, देखिए कया You Need ( song ).
`` What You Need '' is an episode of the American television anthology series The Twilight Zone.
It is based on the short story of the same name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry kuttner और C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in शहर क्लीवलैंड, ओहियो, is the second-largest theater complex in the United States, second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the early 1920s, the theaters were subsequently बंद bas, लकिन यहूद revived through a grassroots effort.
Their नवीकरण और reopening helped usher in a नई era of शहर revitalization in Cleveland, and was called `` one of the top ten successes in Cleveland history. ''
The driver and passenger front airbags, after having been deployed, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
An एयरबैग is a vehicle safety device.
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible fabric envelope or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an ऑटोमोबाइल टक्कर.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their bodies when they strike interior objects such as the steering wheel or a window.
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions, and sensors may deploy one or more airbags in an impact zone at variable rates based on the प्रकार, कोण और severity of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes.
airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt.
Most designs are inflated through pyrotechnic means and can only be संचालित once.
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of compressed air cylinders that are triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact.
The first commercial designs were introduced in passenger automobiles during the 1970s with limited success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a driver airbag, and a front passenger airbag as well on some cars ; and many modern vehicles now शामिल चार or अधिक units.
irs कर फ़ॉर्म हैं प्रयुक्त for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial information to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United States.
They are used to report आय, गणना कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय सरकारी of the United States, and disclose other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ).
There are over 800 various फ़ॉर्म and schedules.
The best-known of ये is रूप 1040 used by individuals.
In the United States, driver 's licenses are issued by each individual state ( including Washington, D.C. and territories ), rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism.
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their state of residence and all states recognize each other 's licenses for temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements.
A state may also suspend an individual 's driving privilege within its borders for traffic violations.
Many states share a common system of license classes, with some अपवाद, और वाणिज्यिक license classes are standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383.
China has been the source of many inventions, including the Four Great Inventions : papermaking, the कम्पास, बारूद, and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ).
The list below contains these and other inventions.
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, and mathematics applied to horology, metallurgy, astronomy, कृषि, engineering, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 bc ), वे था उन्नत metallurgic technology, including the blast furnace and cupola furnace, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated economic system in China gave birth to inventions such as पेपर धन दौरान the सोंग राजवंश ( 960–1279 ).
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance, land mine, naval मेरा, हाथ तोपों, exploding cannonballs, multistage rocket, and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at high sea with the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern Chinese had used the escapement mechanism since the 8th century and the endless power-transmitting कड़ी ड्राइव in the 11th सदी.
They भी बना विशाल mechanical कठपुतली theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats.
The contemporaneous peiligang और Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and were formed around 7000 BC.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives, stone hoes and spades, the cultivation of millet, rice and the soybean, the refinement of sericulture, the building of rammed earth structures with lime -plastered house floors, the creation of the कुम्हार 's व्हील, the सृष्टि of pottery साथ cord-mat-basket डिजाइन, the सृष्टि of pottery tripods और pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c. 2000 BC ) period, the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops, full evidence of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal crops which gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated, '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube seed drill and heavy moldboard iron plow, China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population.
For the purposes of this सूची, आविष्कारों हैं regarded as technological firsts विकसित in China, and as such does not include foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact, such as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe.
It also does नहीं include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately by the Chinese, such as the odometer and chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or natural discoveries, changes in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or style and artistic innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list.
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita, adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011, with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( red ), China ( red ), and India ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the process of international integration arising from the interchange of world दृश्य, उत्पाद, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple terms, globalization refers to प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources.
Advances in परिवहन और दूरसंचार अवसंरचना, सहित the rise of the Internet, are major factors in globalization, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities.
Though several scholars place the origins of वैश्वीकरण in आधुनिक टाइम्स, अन्य trace its history long before the European age of discovery and voyages to the New World.
Some even trace the origins to the third millennium BCE.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of वैश्वीकरण रै intensified at a rapid rate, especially during the Post Cold War era.
The पद वैश्वीकरण has been in increasing use since the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade and transactions, capital and investment movements, migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary water and air pollution, and over-fishing of the समंदर हैं linked with globalization.
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization, economics, socio-cultural resources, और the प्राकृतिक पर्यावरण.
The Replacements is a 2000 American sports comedy film directed by Howard Deutch.
It stars कियानू Reeves, Gene Hackman, and Brooke Langton.
An American Airlines aircraft takes off इससे Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
This विमानक्षेत्र is the airline 's largest hub.
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों in 48 countries.
( as of December 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil Aviation Organization ( icao विमानक्षेत्र कोड ), और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम, साथ the एयरलाइन 's hubs, फ़ोकस शहरों और मौसमी गंतव्यों चिह्नित.
The list also contains destinations no longer served by the airline, which are चिह्नित as terminated destinations.
It does not include destinations served for American Airlines by its क्षेत्रीय affiliates अमरीकी त्रिभुज Airlines, Executive Airlines, and AmericanConnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a परंपरागत jamaican mento लोक सोंग, the best-known संस्करण of जिससे was sung by Harry Belafonte and an alternate version interspersed with another Jamaican folksong, Hill and Gully Rider, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento influences, `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat सोंग ) '' is widely ज्ञात as an example of calypso music.
It is a work song, from the पाइंट of दृश्य of डॉक मजदूर working the night shift loading bananas onto ships.
Daylight रै आइये, the शिफ़्ट is over and they want their work to be counted up so that they can go home.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and रूस ) और the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in इतिहास.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the युद्ध थी the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic संकट when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers यहूद at युद्ध और, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the युद्ध as तैयारी for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static बैटल of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian फौज was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the war ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the भागीदार tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, रूसी, austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The मैप of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Nurse Jackie is an American series कि premiered on जून 8, 2009, on Showtime, Movie Central and The Movie Network.
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton, an emergency department nurse at All Saints ' हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क नगर.
For Jackie, `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling patients, doctors, fellow नर्स और उसके अपना indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an American वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on October 14, 2007, on E !.
It follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner family, सहित बहनों Kourtney, Kim, and Khloé Kardashian.
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and किम लो नई यॉर्क, khloé & लैमर, Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the इस्लामी गणतंत्र of अफगानिस्तान, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming part of South Asia, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It has a population of around 30 लाख inhabiting an area of approximately, making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world.
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east, Iran in the west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north, and China in the far पूर्वोत्तर.
Afghanistan has been an प्राचीन फोकल पाइंट of the Silk Road and human migration.
Archaeologists have found evidence of human habitation from as far वापस as the Middle Paleolithic.
Urban civilization may have begun in the area as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East culture with Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent, the land has been घर to विभिन्न peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces.
the जमीन भी परोसा as a सोर्स इससे जिससे the greco-bactrians, kushans, hephthalites, saffarids, ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, timurids, मुगलों, durranis, और अन्य have risen to रूप प्रमुख empires.
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709, when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad शाह दुर्रानी 's वृद्धि to power in 1747.
In the late 19th century, Afghanistan became a buffer state in the `` ग्रेट खेल `` between the अंग्रेजों और Russian empires.
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War, King Amanullah began a यूरोपीय style modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947, the United States and the Soviet संघ began spreading प्रभाव in अफगानिस्तान, जिससे led to a bloody war between the US-backed mujahideen forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This was followed by the 1990s civil war, the rise and पतन of the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in अफगानिस्तान और assist the करज़ई administration.
Three दशकों of युद्ध बना अफगानिस्तान one of the world 's most dangerous countries, including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers.
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan, terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively शामिल in a देशभर तालिबान -led उग्रवाद, जिससे शामिल hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
According to the United Nations, the insurgents were responsible for 80 % of civilian हताहत in 2011 and 2012.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers did नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन और the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन होता not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी slave states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी सिविल War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods बेची ( cogs ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business has sold during a particular period.
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of several formulas, including specific identification, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
Costs include all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Costs of goods made by the business include material, labor, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as लागत of inventory until the inventory is sold or written down in value.
Freak Lunchbox candy store in Halifax, नोवा Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom, a candy store in the North America, or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery और is प्रायः targeted to children.
Most confectionery stores are filled with an assortment of sweets far larger than a पंसारी or convenience store could accommodate.
वे often offer a selection of old fashioned treats, and sweets from different countries.
बहुत प्रायः अपरिवर्तित in लेआउट चूंकि their inception, confectioneries are known for their warming and nostalgic feel.
the गाँव of pateley सेतु दावा to have the oldest confectionery स्टोर in इंग्लैण्ड.
The oldest मीठी shop in England, in the village of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state स्तिथ in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is known informally by its उपनाम, the sooner राज्य.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', and its capital and largest city is ओक्लाहोमा City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top states in प्रति capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, साथ nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern forests, most of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native American ancestry, more than 25 Native American languages are बोला in ओक्लाहोमा, दूसरी तभी to California.
Oklahoma is स्तिथ on a संगम of तीन प्रमुख अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions और historically served as a route for cattle drives, a destination for southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Stacked and खड़ा car tires
a टायर ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering that fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance.
Most tires, such as those for automobiles and bicycles, provide कर्षण between the vehicle and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock.
The materials of modern pneumatic tires are synthetic rubber, natural rubber, fabric and wire, along with कार्बन black and other chemical compounds.
They consist of a tread और a body.
The tread provides traction while the body provides containment for a quantity of compressed air.
Before rubber was विकसित, the पहला versions of tires were simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear.
Early rubber टायर यहूद solid ( not pneumatic ).
Today, the majority of tires are न्यूमेटिक inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of वाहनों, सहित गाड़ियाँ, साइकिल, motorcycles, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars, and solid rubber ( or other polymer ) tires are still used in various non-automotive applications, such as some casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) थी an अमरीकी डॉक्टर who played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American Revolution, eventually serving as president of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress.
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18, 1775, to leave Boston and स्प्रेड the सचेतक कि the अंग्रेजों गैरीसन in Boston was setting out to raid the town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams.
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of Lexington and Concord, which are commonly माना to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
Warren had been commissioned a Major General in the colony 's मिलिशिया shortly पहले the जून 17, 1775 बैटल of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his rank, Warren served in the battle as a private सिपाही, और was killed in combat when British troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill.
His मौत, immortalized in जॉन trumbull 's पेंटिंग, the मौत of सामान्य वारेन at the बैटल of Bunker 's Hill, June 17, 1775, galvanized the rebel forces, and he has been memorialized in many place names in the United States.
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the organic semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite.
An organic semiconductor is an organic material with semiconductor properties, that is, with an विद्युत चालकता between that of insulators and that of metals.
Single molecules, short chain ( oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) शामिल the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
Polymeric organic semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ), poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as खूब as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There हैं दो प्रमुख overlapping classes of organic semiconductors.
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene.
Linear backbone organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself और इसके डेरिवेटिव polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At तनिक locally, charge-transfer complexes often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors.
Such mechanisms arise from the उपस्थिति of छेद and electron conduction layers separated by a band gap.
While such classic mechanisms are महत्वपूर्ण locally, as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, localized states, mobility gaps, and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
Like inorganic semiconductors, organic semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals.
Typical current carriers in सशुल्क semiconductors are holes and electrons in π-bonds.
लगभग सब सशुल्क solids are insulators.
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems, electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling और related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals हैं उदाहरण of this type of organic semiconductor.
Mainly due to low mobility, even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can function as current carriers.
This type of सेमीकंडक्टर is भी प्राप्त by pairing an electron donor molecule with an electron acceptor molecule.
मादा ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a टॉपिक of बहस among चिकित्सा professionals, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the senior women 's national teams of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1991.
Japan won the 2011 टूर्नामेंट in a penalty shootout.
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams competing for the title at venues भीतर the host nation ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
the फीफा महिलाओं 's संसार कप is पहचाना as the most important International competition in women 's football and is played amongst women 's national football teams of the member states of FIFA, the sport 's global governing body.
The first Women 's World Cup tournament, named the Women 's World Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one years after the men 's पहला फीफा संसार Cup tournament in 1930.
The six World Cup tournaments have महरूम won by four different national teams.
The next World Cup will be hosted by Canada in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers, first published in the United राज्य by हार्पर & पंक्ति on जून 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias, now at Beth Hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the अनुवाद of various Hebrew and Greek phrases used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament.
It has diverse meanings, ranging from a normal human होने to a prophesied अनन्त, दैवी ruler.
The Hebrew अभिव्यक्ति `` बेटे of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one hundred and seven times in the Hebrew Bible.
This is the most common Hebrew construction for the singular but is used mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` बेटे of मेन '', i.e. human beings.
As generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament, `` the son of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the Christian gospels is novel, and before its use there, no records of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist.
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the बेटे of man '' in the Christian gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages.
In Christian usage, unlike the Son of God title, which has been an essential element of Christian creeds since the Apostolic age, the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never महरूम an आलेख of आस्था in Christianity.
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New Testament has remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 सालो of बहस no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars.
Master of foxhounds leads the field from Powderham किला in Devon, England, with the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, and sometimes killing of a fox, traditionally a red fox, by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds, and a group of unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century, but is practised all over the world, including in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा, फ़्रांस, आयरलैंड, Italy and the United States.
In Australia, the term also refers to the शिकार of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting with bow and तीर ) ; in ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, `` hunting '' without qualification implies fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling, stag hunting, mink hunting, drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here.
The sport is controversial, particularly in the UK, where it was banned in Scotland in 2002, and in England and Wales in November 2004 ( law enforced इससे फ़रवरी 2005 ), हालांकि शूटिंग foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural culture और उपयोगी for reasons of conservation and pest control, while opponents argue that it is cruel and unnecessary.
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco उत्पाद or use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
It is now एक of the most highly regulated forms of marketing.
कुछ or all forms of tobacco advertising are banned in many countries.
Bally Technologies, Inc. is a manufacturer of slot machines and other gaming technology आधारित in लास वेगास, Nevada.
The company was founded in 1968 as उन्नत Patent Technology.
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired, in 1996, Bally Gaming International, a पूर्व प्रभाग of Bally Manufacturing.
In 2006, the entire company अपनाया the बल्ली नाम, a ट्रेडमार्क that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation.
Gustave doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; here, Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno.
Inferno ( Italian लिये `` नरक `` ) is the first part of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy.
It is followed by purgatorio and Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell, guided by the Roman poet वर्जिल.
in the कविता, Hell is depicted as nine circles of suffering located within the Earth.
allegorically, the दैवी कॉमेडी represents the यात्रा of the आत्मा towards परमेश्वर, साथ the inferno describing the मान्यता और अस्वीकृति of सिन.
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and produced by the British company Diageo.
The स्मरनॉफ ब्रांड began साथ a वोदका distillery founded in Moscow by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is अभी distributed in 130 countries.
It is उत्पादित in अनेक देशों including India, Ireland, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Smirnoff products शामिल वोदका, flavoured vodka, and malt beverages.
In कूच 2006, diageo उत्तर अमेरिका claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled April 10, 2005 in केंटकी ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes.
Bred by dr. गेरी B. नैप 's monticule Farms in Lexington, Kentucky, he won his first five race starts.
He was sired by Grade III winner Boundary, a son of North American Champion sire Danzig, a son of उत्तरी Dancer.
Big Brown 's dam was Mien, also a granddaughter of उत्तरी नर्तकी through her sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally untitled prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been अपनाया by alcoholics Anonymous and other twelve-step programs.
The best-known रूप is : परमेश्वर, grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
the हिम्मत to change the things I can,
And wisdom to जान the अंतर.
The Declaration and Resolves of the First महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस ( भी ज्ञात as the घोषणा of Colonial Rights, or the Declaration of Rights ), was a statement adopted by the First Continental Congress on October 14, 1774, in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament.
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable Acts, listed a colonial bill of rights, and provided a detailed list of grievances.
It was समान to the घोषणा of Rights and Grievances, passed by the Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier.
The Declaration concluded with an रूपरेखा of कॉंग्रेस 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the Continental Association ) until their grievances were redressed, to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America, and to send a petition to the King.
Pulse pressure is the pressure that is felt जब अहसास the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the दबाव अंतर between the systolic और diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse, which is the pulse pressure.
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), pulse pressure is 40.
The Hills is a reality television series जिससे originally aired on MTV from May 31, 2006 until July 13, 2010.
The show uses a reality television स्वरूप, following the निजी जीवनदान of several young adults living in Los Angeles, California, but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas.
The series originally followed the personal life of former Laguna Beach star Lauren Conrad and her friends ' new lives in Los Angeles.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series and was replaced by another पूर्व लगुना Beach star, Kristin Cavallari, beginning in the second half of the fifth season.
The series concluded at the end of the sixth season.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on उनके सूची of `` the 100 बेहतरीन shows of the Last 25 Years, '' stating that the series was a `` New Classic. ''
AOL TV called it TV 's biggest Guilty Pleasure.
the series premiered in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County.
In poker, bad beat is a subjective term for a hand in which a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses.
it सबसे प्रायः occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger hand and their opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` hits '' and wins.
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes.
It थी एक of the earliest fish to be domesticated, and is one of the most commonly kept aquarium fish.
A relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp और the crucian कार्प ), the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia.
It was first domesticated in China more than a thousand years ago, and several distinct breeds have since been developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size, body shape, fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations of white, yellow, orange, red, brown, and black are known ).
Uncooked rouladen
Rouladen ( or rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually consisting of bacon, onions, mustard and pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked.
In some countries, the roulade is also known as `` बीफ ज़ैतून ''.
Beef or veal is used as मांस हालांकि कुछ खाना विद्वानों tend to believe that the original version was probably venison or pork, and pork is still popular in some areas.
The beef rouladen as we know them today have become popular over the last century.
The cut is usually topside beef or silverside since this is the cheaper cut.
The more expensive संस्करण होता be the round steak, also known as rump steak.
The मांस is काटें into large, thin slices.
The भरना is a मिश्रण of स्मोक्ड और cooked pork belly, chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at times varied by adding minced meat, sausage meat, pine nuts and mustard.
The mixture varies from region to region.
Rouladen are traditionally परोसा लिये डिनर.
Red wine is often served with this dish.
ठेठ eukaryotic cell.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ), और तब रिलीज बर्बाद उत्पाद.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is माना an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall प्रतिक्रिया is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
This difference is because it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction, no single reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar, amino acids और fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, सहित biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
देशों by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the CIA World Factbook.
This आलेख शामिल a सूची of देशों in the world sorted by their gross domestic product ( GDP ), the market value of all final goods and services from a nation in a given year.
The GDP dollar estimates presented here are calculated at market or government official एक्सचेंज दरों.
Several economies which are not considered to be countries ( world, the EU, and some dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the sources.
These economies हैं नहीं क्रमित in the charts here, but are listed where applicable.
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries, and the परिणाम can vary greatly इससे एक साल to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency.
Such fluctuations may change a country 's ranking from one year to the अगला, भी though they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population.
Therefore these figures चाहिए be प्रयुक्त with caution.
Some countries/regions may have citizens which are on औसत wealthy.
These countries/regions could appear in इस सूची as having a small GDP.
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population, and therefore small total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita.
comparisons of नेशनल wealth are also frequently made on the basis of purchasing power parity ( PPP ), to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries.
( See List of देशों by जीडीपी ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but रै इसके अपना कमियां ; it does not reflect the value of economic output in international trade, and it also requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
On the whole, PPP per capita आंकड़े are more narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
The first list includes data compiled by the United राष्ट्र आंकडे Division for 2011.
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International मौद्रिक निधि for 2012.
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates, and the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook.
Lapping is a machining प्रक्रम, in जिससे two surfaces are rubbed together with an abrasive between them, by hand movement or by way of a machine.
This can take two फ़ॉर्म.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ), typically involves rubbing a brittle material ऐसे as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also known as the `` lap '' or grinding tool ) with an abrasive such as aluminum oxide, jeweller 's rouge, optician 's rouge, emery, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., in between them.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive rolls about between the two surfaces and removes सामग्री इससे both.
The अन्य form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic for the lap, which is `` charged '' with the abrasive.
The lap is then used to cut a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer सामग्री जिससे holds it and permits it to score across and cut the harder material.
Taken to a finer limit, this will produce a polished surface such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile, or a पॉलिशिंग cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel.
Taken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of accurate interferometry and specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग, lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers.
This is one twentieth of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon लेज़र लाइट सोर्स.
Surfaces this चपटा can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing them together under the right conditions.
( This is नहीं the वही as the wringing effect of Johansson blocks, although it is similar ).
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the United States that refers to the डलास Cowboys in the National Football League.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, where the narrator opens with the following परिचय : the पद is पहचाना and often used by media outlets, including ESPN, Yahoo !, HBO Sports, and Sports Illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un vampire ) is a 2011 Canadian television series, based on the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी of the same name.
In Canada, the श्रेणी premiered in फ्रेंच on Télétoon on February 28, 2011, in English on Teletoon on March 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27, 2011.
the दिखाएँ थी निर्मित by भैस tv, creators of 6teen और कुल नाटक.
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( मैथ्यू नाईट ), who, in the television film, learns that his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the film, he learns he is able to have visions and his best friend Benny वीयर ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures, with occasional help from fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ), while dealing with the परेशानियों of regular high school life.
A second ऋतु थी पुष्टि to प्रारंभ production in September 2011 and it first premiered on Disney Channel on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring ऋतु 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28, 2012 and premiered it on January 10, 2013
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, driven by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a pickup, is a light motor गाडी साथ an open-top, पश्च कार्गो area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, integrated bed, as well as for coupé utility vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup, such as ute in Australia and New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe, जहाँ vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
The President of the United States of America ( potus ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
The president लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article ii of the u.S. संविधान vests the कार्यपालिका शक्ति of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law, alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is अक्सर वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The twenty-second amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On जनवरी 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve जबतक January 20, 2017.
बोतलबंद mineral water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., well water, distilled water, Mineral water, or spring water ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles.
बोतलबंद जल may be carbonated or not.
Sizes range from small single serving bottles to विशाल carboys लिये जल coolers.
Map of the major rivers, lakes, and टंकी in India
Map showing rivers and flood prone क्षेत्रों in India
नदियाँ of इण्डिया play an important role in the lives of the Indian people.
The river systems provide irrigation, potable water, cheap transportation, electricity, and the livelihoods लिये a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains why nearly all the major cities of India are स्तिथ by the banks of rivers.
The rivers also have an important role in Hindu mythology और हैं माना holy by all Hindus in the country.
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries make up the नदी प्रणाली of India.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however, some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the ईस्ट of the राज्य of himachal pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea.
Parts of Ladakh, northern parts of the Aravlli range and the arid भाग of the थार मरुस्थल have inland drainage.
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the courses of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया along with their tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it.
The shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the centuries is very remarkable.
Many of the channels mentioned in that survey have now become dead, सूखी or even extinct.
All major rivers of India originate from one of the three main watersheds :
The Himalaya and the काराकोरम ranges
Vindhya and Satpura ranges और chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or पश्चिमी ghats in western India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for commercial and financial relations among the world 's major industrial राज्य in the mid-20th सदी.
The Bretton वुड्स प्रणाली थी the first example of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging, 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, for the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated दौरान 1–22 जुलाई 1944, and signed the Agreement on its final day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and procedures to regulate the international monetary प्रणाली, the planners at Bretton Woods established the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ), which today is part of the World Bank Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 बाद a sufficient number of countries had ratified the agreement.
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for each country to adopt a monetary policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to सुनहरा.
This brought the Bretton Woods प्रणाली to an समाप्त and saw the dollar become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the Nixon shock, created the situation in which the United States dollar became a reserve करेंसी used by many states.
At the वही समय, many fixed currencies ( such as GBP, for example ), also became free floating.
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian कम्पनी कि डिजाइन और manufactures motorcycles.
Headquartered in Bologna, Italy, Ducati is owned by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
A क्रेडिट स्कोर is a numerical अभिव्यक्ति based on a statistical analysis of a person 's credit files, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily based on credit report information typically sourced इससे credit bureaus.
Lenders, such as banks and credit card companies, use credit scores to evaluate the potential risk posed by lending धन to उपभोक्ता and to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine who qualifies for a loan, at what interest rate, and what credit limits.
Lenders भी उपयोग credit scores to determine which customers are likely to bring in the most revenue.
The use of credit or identity स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system.
Credit scoring is not limited to banks.
Other organizations, such as mobile phone कंपनियाँ, insurance companies, landlords, and government departments employ the same techniques.
Credit scoring also has a lot of ओवरलैप साथ आंकड़ा खनन, which uses many similar techniques.
These techniques combine thousands of कारकों लकिन they are more or less similar or the same.
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for example, to extract the definition of the metre from the speed of light, the परिभाषा of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length, mass and time.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई ( si ) defines सात इकाई of measure as a basic set from which all other SI units are derived.
These SI base units and उनके शारीरिक quantities are:
metre लिये लंबाई ( US English : meter )
kilogram लिये mass ( note : not the gram )
second for समय
ampere for electric वर्तमान
kelvin लिये तापमान
candela for चमकदार intensity
mole for the amount of पदार्थ.
The SI आधार quantities form a set of mutually independent dimensions as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in science and technology.
However, in a दिए realization of these units they may well be interdependent, i.e. defined in terms of each other.
The names of SI units are written in lowercase characters ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets this rule, as 'degree ' is the unit, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g. मीटर रै the प्रतीक m ), मगर कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई नामित after persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ).
Many other units, such as the litre ( US English : liter ), are formally not part of the SI, but are accepted लिये उपयोग साथ SI.
स्मारक Canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a part of the नेशनल पार्क सेवा निकट the city of Grand Junction, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist चट्टान formations, in some areas.
This is an area of desert land ऊँची on the कोलोराडो Plateau, with pinion and juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife, including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles, ravens, jays, मरुस्थल bighorn sheep, and coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback riding, road bicycling, and दर्शनीय drives ; a visitor center on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop.
There are magnificent views from trails and the Rim Rock Drive, which winds along the plateau.
Nearby are the Book Cliffs, and the largest flat-topped mountain in the world, the ग्रैंड Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which runs the width of the park, और शामिल चट्टान formations such as Independence Monument, the Kissing Couple, and Coke Ovens.
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 वर्गाकार मील ), much of which has been recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to right : Utility Uniform, Blue Dress वर्दी, सेवा Uniform, and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United राज्य समुद्री Corps serve to distinguish Marines from members of other services.
Among current uniforms in the United States हथियारबंद शक्तियां, the Marines ' uniforms have been in service the longest.
The Marine Dress Blue uniform has, with few changes, been worn in essentially इसके वर्तमान रूप चूंकि the 19th century.
North American telephone area codes 419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio.
The largest city served by these area codes is Toledo ( and its suburbs of Holland, Maumee, Northwood, Oregon, Ottawa Hills, Perrysburg, Rossford, Sylvania, swanton, waterville, और Whitehouse ).
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada, Ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, Bowling Green, Bryan, Bucyrus, Celina, Clyde, Crestline, Defiance, Delphos, Edison, Erastus, Findlay, Fostoria, Fremont, Galion, Kenton, Lima, मैन्सफील्ड, Mount Gilead, Napoleon, Norwalk, Oak Harbor, Port Clinton, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper Sandusky, Van Wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
Other areas served include the Lake Erie Islands north of Port Clinton और वेस्ट of Sandusky.
The main area code, 419, was created as one of the original area codes in October 1947 ; the overlay area code 567 was created on January 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the state 's fourth-largest city, 419 was the last of Ohio 's original four area codes to have been split or overlaid.
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9, 1936 ) is an American country music सिंगर and musician.
Although he started out singing straight-up country and western material in the 1970s, he moved towards a more pop -friendly ध्वनि in the 1980s, bringing him further success on not just the country charts, but the pop charts as well.
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses, '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get Prettier at Closing Time, '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` स्टैंड by Me ``.
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl McVoy, Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation प्रशासन, gilley is a licensed पायलट, जो holds an instrument rating with commercial pilot privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as well as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त States in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into इमारतें in आत्महत्या attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175, यहूद क्रैश into the North and South towers, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., but crashed into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers सवार the चार planes.
suspicion quickly fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, ओसामा bin Laden, initially denied any involvement, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel, the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान, जिससे था harbored al-Qaeda.
Many देशों strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture for years, bin Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
क्लीनअप of the संसार व्यापार बीच site was completed in May 2002, and the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the एक संसार व्यापार बीच is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written and directed by Andrew Stanton, released by Walt Disney तस्वीरें, और the पांचवां फिल्मी उत्पादित by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, along साथ a राजसी तंग नामित dory ( एलेन degeneres ), searches for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour.
Along the way, Marlin learns to लो risks और let Nemo take care of himself.
It is Pixar 's पहला फिल्मी to be released in cinemas in the northern hemisphere summer.
The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on सितंबर 14, 2012, और it थी released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A sequel, Finding Dory, is फिलहाल in development, set to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, and was nominated in three more categories including Best Original Screenplay.
It was the second highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2003, earning a total of $ 921 million worldwide.
ढूंढना Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006, and was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it.
it is भी the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film.
In 2008, the American Film Institute नामित it the दसवाँ greatest animated film ever made during their Top 10.
The sixth season of America 's Best Dance Crew, also known as America 's Best Dance Crew : Season of the Superstars, premiered on April 7, 2011 और concluded on June 5, 2011.
auditions were held in four cities from January 21 through February 5 : Chicago, Houston, New York, and Los Angeles.
This season takes a different route from पास्ट seasons.
The crews जरूर perform to the म्यूज़िक of एक specific artist each week, including Rihanna, Lil Wayne, and other popular stars.
This season also features special अतिथि दिखावे by विभिन्न म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ including Justin Bieber, The Black Eyed Peas, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a पूर्व सदस्य of क्वेस्ट क्रू, the winner of the third season of America 's Best Dance Crew, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the ऋतु finale, i aM mE was declared the winner of Season 6 and received the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
In the United States, Social Security refers to the old-age, survivors, and Disability Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program.
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the current version of the Act, as amended, encompass अनेक सोशल welfare और सोशल insurance programs.
Social Security is primarily funded through dedicated payroll taxes called Federal Insurance योगदान अधिनियम कर ( fica ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund.
Upward redistribution of income is responsible for about 43 % of the projected Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years.
According to economist Martin Feldstein, the combined spending लिये all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product.
Social Security is फिलहाल अनुमानित to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out of poverty.
The Social Security Administration is headquartered in woodlawn, मेरीलैंड, just west of Baltimore.
The alcohol by volume दिखाया on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of how much alcohol ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
The ABV standard is प्रयुक्त worldwide.
In some countries, alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph लुई gay-lussac ).
लॉरेल Hollow is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau County, New York in the United States.
The population was 1,952 at the 2010 census.
Charles John huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic.
He created some of the world 's most memorable fictional characters and is generally regarded as the महानतम novelist of the Victorian period.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented fame, and by the twentieth century his literary प्रतिभाशाली थी broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars.
His novels and short stories continue to be widely popular.
born in portsmouth, इंग्लैण्ड, डिकेंस बाएँ स्कूल to कार्य in a फैक्टरी बाद उसके पिता थी thrown into कर्जदार ' थाना.
Although he had little formal education, his early impoverishment drove him to succeed.
Over his करियर he संपादित a weekly journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles, lectured and performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights, education, and other social reforms.
डिकेंस sprang to कीर्ति साथ the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick Papers.
Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity, famous for his humour, satire, and keen observation of अक्षर और society.
His novels, most published in मासिक or साप्ताहिक instalments, pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction, which became the dominant Victorian mode for novel publication.
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction, and he often modified his plot and अक्षर development based on such feedback.
For example, when his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss Mowcher in David Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities, Dickens went on to improve the अक्षर साथ धनात्मक lineaments.
fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of Leigh Hunt in the figure of Mr Skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read episodes.
in the वही अनोखा, दोनो लॉरेंस boythorne और मूनी the beadle are drawn from real life – Boythorne from Walter Savage Landor and Mooney from 'Looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
उसके भूखंड यहूद carefully constructed, और डिकेंस प्रायः wove in तत्व इससे topical कार्यक्रम into उसके कहानियां.
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each new monthly episode read to them, opening up and inspiring a नई class of readers.
Dickens was regarded as the literary colossus of his age.
His 1843 novella, A Christmas Carol, is one of the most influential works ever written, and it remains popular and continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre.
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its यथार्थवाद, कॉमेडी, prose style, unique characterisations, and social criticism.
On the other हाथ ऑस्कर वाइल्ड, Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack of psychological depth, loose writing, and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
मार्टिन लूथर King and other civil rights leaders in front of the statue of Abraham Lincoln, August 28, 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक आंदोलनों for equality before the law that peaked in the 1960s.
In many situations it took the form of campaigns of civil resistance aimed at achieving बदलें by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In some situations it was accompanied, or followed, by civil अशांति और armed rebellion.
The process was long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these movements did not fully achieve their goals although, the efforts of these movements did सीसे to सुधार in the विधिक अधिकारों of previously oppressed groups of people.
The main aim of the civil rights movement included, and include, ensuring that the rights of all people are बराबर सुरक्षित by the law, including the rights of minorities.
Civil rights movements ranging from the global LGBT rights movement to the वैश्विक Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue.
The 2010 फीफा संसार Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup, the world championship for men 's national association football teams.
It took place in South Africa from 11 June to 11 जुलाई 2010.
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004, the international football संघ, FIFA, selected South Africa over Egypt and Morocco to become the first African nation to host the finals.
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country, with the final played at the Soccer City stadium in South Africa 's largest city, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a worldwide योग्यता टूर्नामेंट that began in August 2007.
In the first round of the tournament finals, the teams competed in round-robin groups of four teams for points, साथ the शीर्ष दो टीमों in each group proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage, where three rounds of खेल decided जिससे टीमों would participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, defeated third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time, with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world title, becoming the eighth nation to जीत the टूर्नामेंट, and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent.
Host nation South Africa, 2006 world champions Italy and 2006 runners-up France were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament.
It was the first time that the hosts were eliminated in the पहला round.
New Zealand with their three draws were the only undefeated team in the टूर्नामेंट, लकिन यहूद भी eliminated in the first round.
The McMuffin is a परिवार of नाश्ता सैंडविच in various sizes and configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's franchisee हर्ब पीटरसन in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide fame as एक of the संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स, लिये उसके subsequent सोलो career, and for his political activism and pacifism.
He was shot by Mark David Chapman at the entrance of the भवन जहाँ he जिया, The Dakota, in New York City on 8 December 1980.
Lennon had just लौटे इससे रिकार्ड Plant Studio with his wife, Yoko Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where it was stated that nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स after sustaining such injuries.
Shortly after local news stations reported Lennon 's death, crowds gathered at रूज़वेल्ट Hospital and in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in Hartsdale, New York ; the ashes were given to Ono, who chose not to hold a funeral for him.
The first report of Lennon 's death to a U.S. national audience was announced by Howard Cosell, on ABC 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New ऑरलियन्स महानगर area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त Statistical Area, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is named after Orléans, a city located on the Loire River in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine, music ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), and its annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` सबसे unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The नगर और Orleans Parish ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake pontchartrain, भाग of which is included in the city limits, lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former Vice-President Richard Nixon, won the election over the Democratic nominee, लाज़िम vice-president Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a अभियान कि promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years बाद Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed संघीय intervention in the South to end school segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which New York had the most votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election जहाँ a अध्यक्षीय ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state.
Karak ( ; also known as Garak, Garrak, and Gorg ) is a village in gamasiyab ग्रामीण District, in the Central District of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, its population was 294, in 65 families.
कर्ट 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene, having its debut album ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 ).
following the कामयाबी of nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his संदेश और कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
he challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of उसके जीवन, कोबेन struggled with heroin addiction, illness and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी, संगीतकार कोर्टनी Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun घाव to the सिर.
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination और बहस.
Since their debut, Nirvana, with Cobain as a songwriter, has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and maintenance of machinery.
More generally in the English speaking world, early millwrights were specialist carpenters who erected machines used in agriculture, food processing और प्रसंस्करण lumber and paper.
In the जल्दी भाग of the Industrial Revolution, their skills were pressed into service building the earliest powered textile mills.
Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades in order to successfully fabricate industrial मशीनरी or to इकट्ठे मशीने इससे pre-fabricated parts.
The modern millwright must also be समर्थ to पढ़ा blueprints and other schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the US, although experienced millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors.
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 अमरीकी रोमांटिक action thriller film loosely based on the Philip K. Dick short story, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film was written and directed by George Nolfi and stars Matt डैमन and Emily Blunt.
The cast also includes Anthony Mackie, John Slattery, माइकल Kelly, and Terence Stamp.
The score was composed by Thomas Newman, with two songs by रिचर्ड ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright '' for the opening sequence ; `` Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ).
सोडियम azide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaN3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming component in many car airbag systems.
It is used for the तैयारी of अन्य azide यौगिकों.
It is an ionic पदार्थ, is highly soluble in water, and is very acutely toxic.
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक arc.
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the bottom marks the centre of the रेनबो circle ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by प्रतिबिंब of लाइट in water droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere, resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky.
It takes the रूप of a multicoloured arc.
Rainbows caused by sunlight सदा appear in the खण्ड of sky directly opposite the sun.
In a `` प्राथमिक rainbow '', the arc shows red on the outer part and violet on the inner side.
This rainbow is caused by light होने refracted जबकि entering a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, and has the order of its colours reversed, red facing toward the other one, in both rainbows.
This second rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice inside water droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories, is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of कोसा और अंग्रेजों unionism.
it is the largest राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम, being the largest single party in the House of Commons with 303 MPs, the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors, and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs.
It governs in गठबन्धन साथ the Liberal Democrats, with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister.
The रूढ़िवादी पार्टी थी founded in 1834, and was one of two dominant parties in the 19th century, along with the Liberal Party.
It changed its name to the Conservative and Unionist Party in 1912 after merging with the Liberal Unionist Party, although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply the रूढ़िवादी Party.
In the 1920s, the Liberal vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party became the conservatives ' प्रमुख rivals.
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57 years of the 20th century, including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) और मार्गरेट थैचर ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the तीन प्रमुख पार्टियों.
The party was returned to government in coalition, having failed to win a majority, in 2010 under the अधिक `` उदार '' नेतृत्व of दाउद cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and Reformists ( ECR ) parliamentary group, while the party itself is a member of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest पार्टी in the Scottish Parliament and second-largest in the Welsh Assembly.
They were formally अलाइड to the ulster यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी ( uup ) as part of the Ulster Conservatives and Unionists arrangement, with the UUP currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final, and perhaps most recognizable, line-up comprised Beyoncé नॉलेस, केली rowland और मिशेल Williams.
Formed in 1990 in Houston, टेक्सास, नियति 's चाइल्ड members began their musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After years of सीमित कामयाबी, they were signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was launched into मुख्यधारा मान्यता following the रिलीज of उनके best-selling second album, The Writing 's on the Wall, which contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and commercial success, the group was plagued by internal conflict and विधिक turmoil, as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
Both roberson और luckett यहूद soon replaced with Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however, in 2000, Franklin was dismissed, leaving them as a trio.
Their third album, उत्तरजीवी, जिससे contains विषयवस्तु the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience, contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women ``, `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious ``.
In 2002, they announced a hiatus and re-united two years later for the release of their चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम, Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold अधिक than 50 million records worldwide to date.
Billboard magazine ranks the समूह as एक of the महानतम musical trios of all time, the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s, and placed the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United राज्य संघीय एजेंसी under the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health decisions, and it promotes स्वास्थ्य through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations.
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease रोकथाम और कंट्रोल ( विशेषकर संक्रामक रोगों और foodborne pathogens और अन्य सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ), environmental health, occupational safety and health, health promotion, injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
The CDC is the United States ' national public health institute and is a founding सदस्य of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Association of National Public Health Institutes.
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time, location, and magnitude of a future earthquake within stated limits '', and विशेषकर of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region. ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting, which is the probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard, including the frequency and magnitude of damaging भूकंप, in a given area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further distinguished from real-time earthquake warning प्रणालियों, जिससे, upon डिटेक्शन of a severe earthquake, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an earthquake prediction must be precise enough to warrant the cost of increased precautions, including disruption of ordinary क्रियाएँ and commerce, and timely enough that preparation can be made.
Predictions must also be reliable, as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only economically costly, लकिन seriously undermine confidence in, and thereby the effectiveness of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 भूकंप around the संसार प्रत्येक साल साथ a परिमाण of 4.0 or greater, trivial success in earthquake prediction is easily obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such trivial `` successful पूर्वानुमान '' are not useful.
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports that they were predicted, or at least anticipated, but no claim of a कामयाब prediction of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry.
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that some method of predicting earthquakes might be found, लकिन by the 1990s continuing विफलता led अनेक वैज्ञानिकों to सवाल whether it was even possible.
While many scientists still hold that, given enough संसाधन, भविष्यवाणी might be possible, many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an American actress, singer, संगीतकार, songwriter और record producer.
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey Pickett in the Disney Channel असली श्रेणी the सुइट Life on Deck.
In 2008, the सुइट Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among kids 6-11 and the No. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
Ryan started acting in professional theatres at the age of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the फायरहाउस और तब थी खोजा in a nationwide search by Disney.
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 विशेषता film The Longshots as Edith.
In 2009, she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of Waverly Place in Wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana as बेली पिकेट along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, she starred in the film 16 बधाइयां, जिससे थी the सबसे देखी cable program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie received high viewership in the adults जनसांख्यिकी ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, Ryan starred in the independent theatrical film, What If..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the new Disney Channel Original movie, Radio Rebel, where she portrays the भूमिका of tara एडम्स, a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
released February 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular role in the Disney Channel Original Series, Jessie.
Stührling tourbillon Movement ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the यांत्रिकी of a watch escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John Arnold, a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a घूर्णन पिंजरा, to negate the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons हैं स्टिल शामिल in कुछ महंगी modern watches as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is usually exposed on the देखें 's face to show it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software component used for the installation, maintenance, and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, and often the files themselves, are packaged in installation packages, loosely रिलेशनल databases संरचित as com Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '', from their default file extension.
Windows Installer contains significant परिवर्तन from its predecessor, Setup API.
New features include a GUI framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation sequence.
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks such as older संस्करण of installshield and NSIS.
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis for installation frameworks, so that they synchronize correctly with other installers and रखना the आतंरिक डेटाबेस of installed products consistent.
Important features such as rollback and versioning निर्भर on a सतत आतंरिक database for reliable operation.
Furthermore, Windows Installer facilitates the principle of तनिक विशेषाधिकार by performing तन्त्र installations by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as उर्जा पेय, sold by Phusion Projects of Chicago, Illinois.
Phusion operates as Drink चार brewing Company.
Four Loko, the company 's most popular beverage, debuted in the United States market in 2005.
It is now sold in 48 states, and in Canada, The बहामा, बोलीविया, Honduras, and Europe.
The name `` Four '' is derived from the original energy drink 's four main संघटक : दारू, कैफीन, taurine, and guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of legal, ethical, and health concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining दारू और caffeine.
After the beverage was banned in several states, a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, and guarana as ingredients, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
The neck of a guitar showing the nut ( in the background, coloured white ) and first four metal frets.
A fret is a उठाया element on the neck of a stringed instrument.
frets प्रायः extend आरपार the पूरा चौडाई of the गर्दन.
On most modern western fretted instruments, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On some historical instruments and non-European instruments, frets are बना of टुकड़े of स्ट्रिंग tied around the neck.
Frets divide the neck into fixed segments at intervals related to a musical framework.
On instruments such as guitars, each fret represents one semitone in the मानक पश्चिमी system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones.
Fret is often used as a verb, meaning simply `` to press down the स्ट्रिंग पीछे a fret. ''
Fretting often refers to the frets and/or their system of placement.
There was consumption of alcohol both during and after निषेध.
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production, distribution और बिक्री of alcoholic पेय in the United States and was widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920.
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most personal and social समस्याएं और निषेध was seen as the solution to the nation 's poverty, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the प्रसिद्ध इंजीलवादी Billy Sunday said that `` The slums will soon be only a memory.
We will turn our prisons into factories and our jails into storehouses और corncribs. ''
( compare Christianity and alcohol. )
Since alcohol was to be banned and चूंकि it थी देखी as the cause of most, if not all, crime, some communities sold their jails.
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस confidently asserted that `` There is as much chance of repealing the Eighteenth Amendment as there is for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ), ( si ईकाई प्रतीक : m ; si आयाम प्रतीक : l ), is the fundamental unit of length in the International System of Units ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the उत्तर ध्रुव ( at sea level ), its definition has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it has been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a दूसरी. ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol, negev मरुस्थल, इसराईल
Geologists explaining the importance of volcanic ash layers to विद्यार्थी on फ़ील्ड in Iceland
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth as well as the प्रक्रियाओं और इतिहास कि has shaped it.
Geologists usually engage in अध्ययन geology.
geologists, अध्ययन more of an applied science than a theoretical one, must approach Geology using physics, chemistry and biology as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in other fields, are generally more exposed to the बाहरी than रहकर in laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab.
geologists हैं सगाई in खोजी for mining companies in search of metals, oils, and other Earth resources.
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and disasters warning and mitigation, studying earthquakes, volcanic activity, tsunamis, weather storms, और the जैसे ; उनके अध्ययन हैं प्रयुक्त to warn the सामान्य public of the occurrence of these events.
Currently, geologists are also engaged in the discussion of climate change, as they study the history and evidence लिये इस Earth process.
Below is a comprehensive drill and tap size chart लिये all drills, imperial and metric, and taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern vacuum tubes, ज़्यादातर miniature style
In electronics, a vacuum tube, electron tube ( in North America ), thermionic valve, tube, or valve is a device controlling इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The संग्राहक is often thin transparent glass in a roughly cylindrical shape.
The simplest वैक्यूम ट्यूब, the डायोड, is essentially an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' बंद इसके सतह and into the vacuum inside the bulb.
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is made more positive than the hot filament, a direct current flows through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only flows in one direction, it makes it possible to convert an alternating current applied to the filament to direct current.
The introduction of a third electrode, a grid between the फिलामेंट and the plate, yields another function.
A voltage applied to the grid नियंत्रण the current flowing from the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the device to be प्रयुक्त as an electronic amplifier.
Vacuum tubes are thus used for rectification, amplification, switching, or similar processing or सृष्टि of electrical signals.
The विशाल बहुमत of modern day tubes consist of a sealed container with a vacuum inside, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this are dealt साथ in the section about gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology, which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting, टेलीविज़न, रडार, ध्वनि reinforcement, ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग and reproduction, large telephone networks, analog and digital computers, and industrial process control.
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies ऐसे as the चिंगारी गैप ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical computers, it was the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical.
In most applications, solid-state डिवाइस ऐसे as transistors and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes.
Solid-state devices last longer and are smaller, more efficient, more reliable, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, and can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature where वे perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not महरूम विकसित, are impractical, or where a tube has superior performance, as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters.
Tubes are still produced for such applications.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स उत्पादित by nuclear explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets, currently produced and marketed by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. कम्पनी, a प्रभाग of Mars, Inc.
They have hard sugar शेल जिससे carry the letter S.
The अंदर is मुख्यतः शुगर, मकई syrup, and hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit juice, citric acid, and natural and artificial flavours.
The confectionery has been sold in a variety of फ्लेवर संग्रहण, such as Tropical and Wild Berry.
Sir विंस्टन लियोनार्ड spencer-churchill, ( 30 नवम्बर 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a British politician who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as एक of the महानतम wartime leaders of the 20th century, Churchill was also an officer in the British Army, a historian, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British Prime Minister in history to have प्राप्त the नोबेल पुरस्कार in साहित्य, and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an वैभवशाली परिवार as the grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough.
His पिता, रब randolph Churchill, was a charismatic politician who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother, Jennie Jerome, was an American socialite.
As a young army officer, he saw action in अंग्रेजों India, The Sudan, and the Second Boer War.
he gained fame as a war correspondent and wrote books about his campaigns.
At the forefront of politics for fifty years, he held many political and cabinet positions.
Before the First संसार युद्ध, he परोसा as President of the Board of Trade, Home Secretary, and First Lord of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith Liberal government.
During the war, he continued as First Lord of the admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government.
He then briefly resumed क्रियाशील फौज सेवा on the Western Front as commander of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to government as Minister of munitions, सचिव of State for War, and Secretary of State for Air.
After the War, Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the रूढ़िवादी ( baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy.
Also controversial was his opposition to increased home rule for India और उसके प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII.
Out of दफ्तर और नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in warning about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the Second World War, he थी again appointed First Lord of the Admiralty.
Following the resignation of Neville Chamberlain on 10 May 1940, Churchill became Prime Minister.
His वफ़ादार refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance, especially during the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood alone among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler.
Churchill was particularly noted for his speeches and radio प्रसारण, जिससे helped inspire the British people.
He led ब्रिटेन as Prime Minister until victory over Nazi Germany had been secured.
After the Conservative Party खोया the 1945 चुनाव, he became Leader of the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government.
After winning the 1951 election, he again became Prime Minister, before retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, Elizabeth II granted him the honour of a state funeral, which saw one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history.
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as being among the most influential लोगों in British history.
माणिक्य gloom is an animated television show based on an apparel franchise.
The show is produced by nelvana और began airing on अक्तूबर 13, 2006 in Canada on the network YTV.
It stars the आवाज़ें of सारा Gadon, Emily Hampshire, and Peter Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a कॉम्पैक्ट car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998.
Ford began sales of the Focus to Europe in July 1998 and in North America during 1999 for the 2000 model year.
In Europe, South America, North America and South अफ़्रीकी, the Focus replaced the various versions of the Ford Escort sold in those markets.
In Asia and australasia, it replaced the Ford Laser.
As of the first half of 2012, the Focus surpassed the Toyota Corolla to become the world 's best selling ऑटोमोबाइल nameplate.
The Focus has been considered one of the 50 greatest cars of the पास्ट fifty years by British magazine CAR.
An agar plate -- an example of a bacterial growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the orange lines and dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like the मॉस Physcomitrella patens.
There हैं अलग types of media for growing different types of cells.
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell culture, which use विशिष्ट cell types derived from plants or animals, and microbiological culture, which are used for growing microorganisms, such as bacteria or yeast.
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ; specialized media are sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth.
Some organisms, termed fastidious organisms, आवश्यकता specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements.
Viruses, for example, हैं obligate intracellular parasites and require a growth medium containing living cells.
A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film निर्देशकों, संगीतकारों, मॉडल, producers, professional athletes, writers and other people in various entertainment businesses.
An agent also defends, supports and promotes the interest of his/her clients.
Agents can not produce उनके अपना shows due to conflict of interest.
A talent agent must be familiar with their clients.
An agent has to जान कया kind of work the client can and can not do in order to match them with various jobs.
Having an agent is not required, but does help the कलाकार in getting कार्य.
In many cases casting directors, or other businesses, go to talent agencies to find artists they are looking for.
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's earnings ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes will be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of agents that are established by कलाकार 's संघ और the विधिक क्षेत्राधिकार in which the agent operates.
There are also professional organizations that license talent agencies.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a monumental shift in how studios would produce films and thus reducing the लागत of विशेष and expensive actors.
Actors and अभिनेत्रियों यहूद working लिये the studios but were not owned by one major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios.
Because of इस, agents were now seen as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became third parties कि negotiated between studios and clients, this making their services imperative between each party.
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code, which calls an agent a `` person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists. ''
Mars has two known moons, Phobos and Deimos, which are thought to be captured asteroids.
Both satellites were खोजा in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who, in Greek mythology, accompanied their father Ares, god of war, into battle.
Ares was known as Mars to the Romans.
It is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may be present लकिन none have been discovered.
In law enforcement parlance, the term हत्या किताब refers to the case file of a murder investigation.
Typically, murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches, autopsy and forensic reports, transcripts of investigators ' notes and witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation, from the time the murder is first reported through the गिरफ़्तार of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically गार्ड हत्या किताबे carefully, and it is unusual for civilians to be given unfettered access to these kinds of records, especially for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller that varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They are generally प्रयुक्त in fruit salad.
A KSA, or Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities, is a series of narrative statements that are required when applying to United States संघीय सरकारी जॉब openings.
KSAs are used to determine, along with resumes, who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job.
The knowledge, skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary for the successful performance of a position are contained on प्रत्येक जॉब रिक्ति घोषणा.
In 2009 the Office of Personal प्रबन्धन asked federal agencies to stop requiring job applicants to fill out the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's करियर और शैक्षणिक पृष्ठभूमि कि presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, skills, and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and expertise and related अनुभवों ( कार्य, शिक्षा, स्वयंसेवी ) और accomplishments.
a श्रेणी of KSA statements are usually required when applying for most federal government and some state and city government jobs.
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the सामर्थ्य of a prospective आवेदक in terms of likely ability to perform the duties of the job.
Most government hiring officials look for a short, crisp and साफ ksa कि emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work.
KSA statements are also ज्ञात as Evaluation Factors.
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '', `` Quality Ranking Factors '', `` Knowledge, Abilities, skills and Other Characteristics '', or `` जॉब तत्व ''.
The name can be just a name but often it प्रभाव सामग्री और लंबाई of the essay.
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the time the each KSA factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
The below definitions are पारिभाषित by the u.S. दफ्तर of Personnel Management :
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - the गुण जरूरी to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying service, education, or training.
Knowledge - Is a body of information applied directly to the प्रदर्शन of a function.
Skill - is an observable competence to perform a learned psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable बर्ताव or a behavior that results in an observable product.
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a स्केल of from one to 100.
Job applicants must score ऊपर 70 to be considered for the position.
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible, providing examples from previous employment or प्रशिक्षण कि clearly demonstrate तुम meet the qualifications.
When applying to federal सरकारी positions, a Federal Resume is usually required in addition to KSA statements.
सही
Whole grains are खाद्यान्न दाने कि contain खाद्यान्न germ, endosperm, and bran, in contrast to refined grains, which retain only the endosperm.
Common whole grains include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley - hulled और dehulled ( not Pearl )
मक्का
भूरा rice
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted Grains
buckwheat
Common whole grain उत्पाद include:
Whole wheat आटा
Whole wheat ब्रैड
Whole गेहूं Pasta
Rolled oats or oat groats
triticale flour
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff आटा
Common refined non-whole अनाज उत्पाद include:
Love Always is the debut album of American R & B duo K-Ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at विभिन्न studios in नई यॉर्क और the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997.
It was produced by JoJo and several others, including DeVante झूले, जेम्स mtume, और जेफ़ Redd.
The duo were originally a part of jodeci पहले इस album.
The album peaked at sixth on the US Billboard 200 and also appeared on अंतरराष्ट्रीय charts.
The single `` All My Life `` charted number one in multiple countries, and all four of the एल्बम 's singles peaked ऊपर the top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love Always was received favorably by critics, who praised the brothers ' गायन क्षमता and the production.
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden.
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 लाख नक़ल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the ब्याज रेट on the नोट periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate.
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, but where the lender offers no specific link to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट can be बदला at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States, whilst in the United States, `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most आम, और implies a बंधक regulated by the Federal government, with caps on charges.
In many countries, adjustable rate mortgages हैं the norm, and in such places, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) securities, the लागत of निधि अनुक्रमणिका ( cofi ), और the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders उपयोग their own cost of funds as an index, rather than using other indices.
This is done to ensure a steady margin for the lender, whose own cost of funding will usually be related to the index.
Consequently, payments made by the borrower may change over time with the changing interest rate ( alternatively, the पद of the ऋण may बदलें ).
This is distinct from the ग्रैजुएट payment mortgage, which offers changing payment amounts but a fixed interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage, the फिक्स्ड rate mortgage, the negative amortization mortgage, and the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates transfer part of the ब्याज रेट रिस्क इससे the lender to the borrower.
They can be used where unpredictable interest rates make fixed rate loans difficult to obtain.
The borrower benefits if the interest rate falls but loses if the interest rate increases.
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages.
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy, took place shortly after midnight on June 5, 1968, in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, दौरान the अभियान ऋतु लिये the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय election, 1968.
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States, Kennedy was shot as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the शुभ सामरी Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian immigrant, was convicted of कैनेडी 's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming प्रमाण that he was framed.
The shooting was recorded on audio tape by a freelance newspaper reporter, और the aftermath थी captured on film.
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's Cathedral in नई यॉर्क लिये दो दिनों before a funeral mass was held on June 8.
His body was interred near his bhai जॉन at आर्लिंगटन National Cemetery.
His death prompted the protection of अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार by the United States Secret Service.
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the Democratic nomination for the presidency, but ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon.
As with his brother Jack 's death, Bobby 's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have शाखित a variety of conspiracy theories.
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one of only two sitting United States Senators to be assassinated ( the अन्य होने huey Long ).
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the period in the history of mainstream अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे generally माना to पिछला इससे the mid-1980s until present day.
In this period, comic book characters generally became गहरा और अधिक psychologically जटिल, creators became better-known और क्रियाशील in changing the industry, independent comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An वैकल्पिक name for this period is the Dark Age of Comic Books, due to the popularity and artistic influence of grim titles, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry Met Sally... is a 1989 American romantic comedy film written by Nora Ephron and निर्देशित by Rob Reiner.
It stars Billy Crystal as हैरी और मेग रयान as सैली.
The story follows the title characters from the time they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City.
The film raises the question `` Can men and women ever just be मित्रों ? '' और अग्रिम अनेक विचार परिचय संबंध कि became household concepts, such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the film came from Reiner 's return to single life after a divorce.
An interview ephron conducted साथ Reiner provided the basis for Harry.
Sally was based on Ephron and some of her मित्रों.
Crystal came on board and made उसके अपना योगदान to the screenplay, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue based on the real-life दोस्ती between reiner and Crystal.
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry Connick, Jr., with a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick won his first Grammy Award for Best Jazz Male Vocal प्रदर्शन.
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique, which involved opening it in a few select cities, letting positive शब्द of मुँह generate ब्याज, and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
जब हैरी मिले सैली... grossed a total of US $ 92.8 million in North America.
ephron प्राप्त a British Academy Film Award, an Oscar nomination, and a Writers Guild of America Award nomination for her screenplay.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 हंसते सूची of the शीर्ष कॉमेडी films in American cinema and number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
In early 2004, the film was adapted for the stage in a उत्पादन अभिनीत Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of boxed पास्ता bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The सामग्री of प्रत्येक बक्सा are combined with browned ground beef, water and milk to create a complete dish.
The product line also features products with other starches ऐसे as राइस or आलू बजाय of pasta.
It is बना by General Mills.
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the मंड मद और the सॉस पैकेट्स, कुछ varieties of the product include ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, which features some of the brand 's classic varieties in a complete meal kit form, with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag.
There is also an `` तत्काल '' संस्करण of हैमबर्गर हेल्पर containing dehydrated meat, noodles and seasonings in a small pouch, requiring only water to be added.
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '', an anthropomorphic एनिमेटेड, चार fingered left-hand दस्ताने, जिससे appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as seen with the Hubble स्पेस दूरदर्शी.
It is the only dwarf planet in the क्षुद्रग्रह belt.
Pluto in approximate true colour based on हबल Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its moons, Hiʻiaka और namaka ( artist 's conception )
Makemake ( artist 's धारणा )
Eris and its moon Dysnomia as seen with the हबल Space Telescope
A dwarf ग्रह is a planetary-mass object that is neither a planet nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape to be controlled by gravitation, but that unlike a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects.
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of लाशें orbiting the सूर्य, brought परिचय by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size, and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object, Eris.
This classification states that bodies large enough to have साफ the neighbourhood of their orbit are defined as planets, while those that are not massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies.
Dwarf planets come in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike Brown, who discovered and other new dwarf planets, but has been rejected by Alan Stern, who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf ग्रह in the Solar System :, Pluto,,, and.
However, only two of these bodies, Ceres and Pluto, have been observed in enough विवरण to demonstrate that they fit the definition.
Eris has been स्वीकृत as a dwarf planet because it is more massive than Pluto.
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an निरपेक्ष परिमाण उज्जवल than +1 ( और hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The तभी दो ऐसे objects known at the time, Makemake and Haumea, went through this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected that another hundred or so known objects in the Solar System are dwarf planets.
estimates हैं कि up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored, and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
व्यक्तिगत खगोलशास्त्रियों recognize several of these, and in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects, ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets. '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the five स्वीकृत by the iau प्लस,,, and – as `` virtually certain '', with another two dozen highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems with the विशेषताएँ of बौना ग्रह has not been addressed.
A debit card ( also known as a bank card or check card ) is a plastic payment card that provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution.
कुछ ताश have a भंडारित मान साथ जिससे a भुगतान is made, while most relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account.
The card, where accepted, can be used बजाय of cash when making purchases.
In some cases, the primary account number is assigned exclusively for use on the Internet and there is no physical card.
In many countries, the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और, in कुछ उदाहरण, cash transactions.
The development of debit cards, unlike credit cards and charge cards, has generally महरूम देश विशिष्ट resulting in a क्रमांक of different systems around the world, which were often incompatible.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be used in अन्य देशों और अनुमत their use for internet and phone purchases.
Unlike credit and charge cards, payments using a debit card are तत्काल transferred from the cardholder 's designated bank account, instead of them paying the money back at a later date.
डेबिट ताश प्रायः भी allow लिये तत्काल वापसी of नकदी, एक्टिंग as the एटीएम कार्ड लिये withdrawing नकदी.
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to ग्राहक, where a customer can withdraw cash along with their purchase.
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26, 1914 - January 23, 2011 ) was an American fitness, exercise, and nutritional expert and motivational स्पीकर जो is sometimes पुकारा `` the गॉडफादर of फ़िटनेस '' and the `` first fitness superhero. ''
He described himself as being a `` sugarholic '' and a `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15.
He also had behavioral problems, लकिन `` turned उसके जीवन around '' बाद listening to a public lecture by Paul Bragg, a well-known nutrition speaker.
During his career, he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the health of its population, लिखने कि `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America. ''
Decades before health and fitness began being promoted by celebrities like Jane फोंडा और रिचर्ड सीमन्स, lalanne थी already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet.
He प्रकाशित numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness television show between 1953 and 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the nation 's first fitness gyms in Oakland, California, which became a prototype for dozens of समान gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed toward women, whom he also प्रोत्साहित to join his health clubs.
He invented a क्रमांक of exercise machines, including leg-extension and pulley devices.
Besides producing his own series of videos, he coached the elderly and disabled not to forgo कसरत, believing it होता enable them to enhance their strength.
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder, as खूब as लिये his prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated, `` That Jack LaLanne 's an animal !, '' after lalanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death, श्वार्ज़नेगर credited lalanne लिये होने `` an apostle लिये फ़िटनेस '' by inspiring `` billions all over the world to live healthier lives, '' and, as governor of California, had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited LaLanne as his inspiration to निर्माण his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist.
He was inducted to the California Hall of कीर्ति और रै a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the countries use system समान to सेना.
However, the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth countries, or those formerly under a British influence, use a different set of ranks loosely based on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant, Commander, Captain and commodore हैं prefixed लिये एयर फ़ोर्स use with Flight, Wing, Group and Air, respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ).
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born April 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, वो बना उसके एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on television and her feature film debut the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to critical acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ), the लड़की of Your Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and उड़ा.
She has since built a successful career, appearing in films from a wide range of genres, including the comedy Waking Up in Reno ( 2002 ), the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ), the क्रिसमस फिल्म नोएल ( 2004 ), and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी Globe and Academy Award nominations for each.
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2008 for विक्की क्रिस्टीना बार्सिलोना.
She was the first Spanish actress in history to receive an Academy Award and the first स्पेनी अभिनेत्री to प्राप्त a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Cruz has modeled for companies such as Mango, Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal.
Penélope and her younger sister Mónica Cruz have designed वस्तुएं लिये Mango.
She has donated both her time और धन to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India, जहाँ वो खर्च एक सप्ताह working for Mother Teresa ; she donated her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission.
A wax sculpture of Cruz will be placed in a premier स्पॉट in the grevin Wax Museum in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as खिड़कियाँ एक्सप्लोरर, is a संचिका मैनेजर अनुप्रयोग and also a navigation tool that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
It provides a graphical उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस लिये accessing the file systems.
it is भी the component of the operating system that presents many user interface items on the monitor such as the taskbar and desktop.
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example, the File | Run command in Task Manager on NT-derived संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ होगा फलन without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the C : \Windows directory, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell, explorer.exe, or बस “Explorer”.
The Care Bears are characters निर्मित by American Greetings in 1981 for use on greeting cards.
The original artwork लिये the ताश थी painted by artist Elena Kucharik.
in 1983, Kenner turned the Care Bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the Land Without Feelings ( 1983 ) और the Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ).
They also था उनके अपना टेलीविज़न श्रेणी इससे 1985 to 1988, in addition to three feature films : The Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ), Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ), and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each Care Bear comes in a different color and has a specialized insignia on its belly that represents its duty and personality.
This insignia was ज्ञात as their `` tummy symbol. ''
However, the movie Care Bears : Oopsy करता it ! renamed them `` belly badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family हैं the `` परवाह भालू cousins '', which feature a lion, rabbit, penguin, raccoon, and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced साथ new toys.
Made by Play-Along Toys, the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon टच, एरोबिक bears, और glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated movies : Care bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) और the परवाह bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took प्लेस, as खूब as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, AG announced a revival TV animated series titled `` Care Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premiere of the श्रेणी utilizes `` 30 years of caring ''.
It premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, Care Bears merchandise is स्टिल होने marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted to acquire the मताधिकार इससे AGC, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States that runs from Interstate 15 near कोव फोर्ट, यूटा, to a पार्क और सवारी near Baltimore, Maryland.
It was the first अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the United States.
I-70 approximately traces the path of U.S. Route 40 ( और भी the बूढ़ा नेशनल Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the Rockies, the route of I-70 was निकला from multiple sources.
I-70 is the fifth longest अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग, after I-90, I-80, I-40, and I-10.
The construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel, Glenwood canyon, और the सैन राफेल Swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point along the अंतरराज्यीय Highway system with an elevation of.
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and कान्सास have laid claim to be the first interstate in the United States.
Though disputed, the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the section of I-70 through Glenwood Canyon, completed in 1992, was the last piece of the Interstate Highway system, as originally planned, to open to traffic.
फ़ोटो of 1999 total eclipse
As seen from the Earth, a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the सूर्य और धरती, और the चंद्रमा fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen only at new moon, when the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy.
In a total eclipse, the डिस्क of the Sun is fully obscured by the Moon.
In partial and annular eclipses तभी भाग of the Sun is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit, a छोटी closer to the Earth, and in the same orbital plane, there would be total solar eclipses every single month.
However, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5 degrees to Earth 's orbit around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so its shadow at new चंद्रमा प्रायः चूकें Earth.
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's कक्षा जरूर क्रॉस this plane in order for an eclipse ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's वास्तविक कक्षा is अंडाकार, प्रायः taking it far enough away from Earth that its apparent size is not large enough to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at least two, and up to five, solar eclipses occurring each साल ; no अधिक than दो of जिससे can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular location because totality exists only along a narrow path on Earth 's surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra.
An eclipse is a natural घटना.
Nevertheless, in some ancient and modern cultures, सौर eclipses have महरूम attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its astronomical explanation, as the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the आसमान darkens in a matter of minutes.
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun, observers should use special eye protection or indirect viewing तकनीकों जब देखने a आंशिक ग्रहण, or the partial phases of a total eclipse.
It is सुरक्षित to view the total phase of a total solar eclipse with the unaided eye and without protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles होगा travel to remote locations to observe or witness predicted central solar eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` part '', `` portion '' ) is a राजनैतिक organization that typically seeks to influence, or entirely control, government policy, usually by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office.
Parties participate in electoral campaigns and शैक्षणिक मंगवाने or protest actions.
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision, expressed in a party program, bolstered by a written platform with विशिष्ट लक्ष्य, forming a गठबन्धन among disparate interests.
the आम is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae.
The mango is native to South Asia, from where it has been distributed worldwide to become one of the most cultivated फल in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) are also grown on a more localized basis, Mangifera indica – the 'common आम ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of इण्डिया, पाकिस्तानी और Philippines.
In अनेक संस्कृतियों, इसके फल और पत्ते हैं ritually प्रयुक्त as floral decorations at weddings, public celebrations and religious ceremonies.
Gill Arnette Byrd, < संदर्भ नाम > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born February 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He was a two समय प्रो कटोरी cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the San Diego Chargers after graduating from San Jose State University.
Byrd थी inducted into the Chargers Hall of Fame in 1998.
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ), helping to lead the Cardinals to the city चैंपियनशिप in उसके वरिष्ठ ऋतु of 1978.
World map showing the tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, भी referred to as the उत्तरी tropic, is the circle of latitude on the Earth that marks the most northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith.
This event occurs एकबार प्रति साल, at the समय of the June solstice, when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It फिलहाल ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator.
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart, marking the most southerly position at जिससे the सूर्य may appear directly overhead, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
These tropics हैं दो of the पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि उपायों or प्रमुख वृत्त of latitude that mark maps of the Earth, besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than the Equator ) are लिखवाई by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to स्टोर डिजिटल video on DVD discs, and is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
वाणिज्यिक dvd फिल्मों are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
typically, the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first उपलब्धियाँ for retail around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification थी निर्मित by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is नहीं सरेआम available, because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
निश्चित सूचना in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential.
In computing and specifically अंतरजाल, a जोंक is एक जो लाभ, usually deliberately, from others ' information or effort but does not offer anything in return, or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech.
In economics, this type of behavior is called `` फ़्री सवारी '' and is associated with the free rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources, but often instead to greedy use according to etiquette : to wit, using too much of what is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it.
The name derives from the leech, an animal that झंझट रक्त और तब कोशिशें to leave unnoticed.
Other शर्तें are used, such as `` freeloader '', but leech is the most common.
the पूरा eagle logo, used in various versions from 1970 to 1993.
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ), also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail, is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible for providing postal सेवा in the United States.
It is one of the few सरकारी agencies explicitly authorized by the United States Constitution.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress, जहाँ बेंजामिन Franklin was appointed the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 इससे फ्रैंकलिन 's आपरेशन और transformed into its current form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 मजदूर और operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The usps is the operator of the largest vehicle fleet in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve all Americans, regardless of geography, at uniform price and quality.
The USPS has विशेष अभिगम to अक्षर बाक्स चिह्नित `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the United States, but still competes against private package delivery services, such as UPS and FedEx.
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the early 1980s with the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and overseas voters.
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail volume, after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act ``, ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, D.C. has been the capital of the United States since 1800.
Eight other cities have served as the बैठक place for Congress and are therefore considered to have once been the capital of the United States.
In addition, each of the 50 u.S. राज्य और the five principal territories of the United States maintains its own capital.
Princess cut diamond set in a ring
The Princess cut is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय काटें आकार for diamonds, next to a round brilliant.
The face-up shape of the princess काटें is वर्गाकार or आयताकार and the profile or side-on shape is similar to that of an inverted pyramid with four beveled sides.
The princess cut is a relatively new diamond cut, having been created in the 1960s.
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more popular round brilliant cut, in which the शीर्ष of डायमंड, पुकारा the क्राउन, is काटें साथ a गोलाकार face-up shape and the bottom, called the pavilion, is shaped similar to a cone.
A princess cut with the वही width as the diameter of a round brilliant will weigh more as it has four corners which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant.
The princess cut is sometimes referred to as a square modified brilliant.
However, while displaying the same high degree of brilliance, its faceting स्टाइल is unique and completely different from that of a round brilliant.
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine to give a distinct cross-shaped reflection जब the स्टोन is viewed सीधे through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the ऊँची उपाधि of लाइट return of a round brilliant cut with a distinctive square or rectangular shape.
The square princess cut diamond is usually slightly सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट of the वही कैरेट वज़न क्युकी it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain more crystal weight makes इस आकार popular amongst diamond cutters.
Accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA ) and American Gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) and European Gem laboratories-usa ( egl-usa ) हैं फिलहाल the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut.
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an ideal princess cut diamond and many diamond manufacturers market ideal diamonds with differing facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, and egl-usa the gemological संस्थान of अमेरिका ( gia ) रै stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify cut grading standards for Princess cut diamonds and to do so is at the risk of consumers who may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades.
The name `` Princess Cut '' was originally used in connection साथ another डायमंड काटें, वरना known as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by Arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The same name was later used and made लोकप्रिय by ygal पर्लमैन, Betzalel Ambar, and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
A similar cut with only 49 facets, as opposed to the original 58 facets of the princess cut, was later branded the `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with faceting similar to that of a round शानदार काटें diamond.
A तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a राजकुमारी काटें diamond.
This can usually be संकल्पित by the तार आरेख that is plotted in diamond grading reports.
By adding more chevrons on the मण्डप पक्ष of the diamond, the individual facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets.
As a result, it can give a princess cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look.
Vice versa, जब a राजकुमारी cut diamond has lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets.
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ), a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora.
The term `` domestic dog '' is generally used for both domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated और रै महरूम the सबसे widely kept working, hunting, and pet animal in human history.
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine species, as opposed to the word `` bitch '' for the female of the species.
mtdna प्रमाण shows an विकासवादी विभाजित between the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years ago but,, the oldest fossil specimens genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them जल्दी बनने सर्वव्यापी across world cultures.
Dogs perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and military, companionship, और, अधिक recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
This impact on human society has given them the nickname `` Man 's Best Friend '' in the Western world.
In some cultures, dogs are also a सोर्स of मांस.
In 2001, वहीँ were estimated to be 400 million dogs in the world.
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few hundred years old, having been artificially selected लिये particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles.
Through this selective breeding, the dog has developed into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal.
For example, height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to परिचय in the आयरिश wolfhound ; रंग varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा `` blue '' ) to black, and browns from light ( tan ) to dark ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, curly, or smooth.
It is आम for most breeds to shed this coat.
Diagram of a हस्तांतरण electron microscope
A 1973 siemens electron microscope, Musée des Arts et Métiers, Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an electron beam to illuminate a नमूना and produce a magnified image.
An EM has वृहद resolving शक्ति than a लाइट microscope and can reveal the structure of smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and उपयोगी magnifications below 2000x.
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control the इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम and focus it to form an image.
These electron optical lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope.
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of biological and inorganic specimens including microorganisms, cells, large molecules, biopsy samples, metals, and crystals.
Industrially, the electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी is often used for quality control and failure analysis.
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs, using specialized digital cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a कड़ी of fried chicken fast food restaurants founded in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood, It was acquired by Sandy Springs, Georgia -based AFC उद्यमों, originally अमेरिका 's पसंदीदा Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a company press release dated June 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group, measured by number of इकाई '', साथ अधिक than 1,800 रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, China, Hong Kong, Iraq, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Singapore, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, Vietnam, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
About thirty स्थितियाँ are company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which the individual pushes a weight or प्रतिरोध away from them using their legs.
The term leg press also refers to the apparatus used to perform this exercise.
The leg press can be used to evaluate an athlete 's overall निम्नतर देह शक्ति ( इससे घुटना joint to hip ).
Using the तिर्यक sled-type leg press machine.
There are दो main types of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled ' प्रकार लेग press.
Weight disks ( plates ) are संलग्न directly to the sled, which is mounted on rails.
The user sits below the sled and pushes it upward साथ उनके फीट.
These machines normally include adjustable safety कोष्ठक कि prevent the user from being trapped under the weight.
The 'cable ' type leg press, or 'seated leg दबायें ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits upright and pushes forward with their फीट onto a थाली कि is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel cable.
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan Williams ; July 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, actress and author.
She hosts a syndicated टेलीविज़न talk show, The Wendy Williams Show.
Prior to टेलीविज़न, Williams was a `` shock jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams has gained सुर्खी for her on-air spats with celebrities.
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The Wendy विलियम्स अनुभव which broadcast events surrounding her radio show.
She has written an autobiography and several other books, and has created a उत्पाद लकीर पुकारा Adorn by Wendy Williams.
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' वाक before the House of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to Patrick हेनरी इससे a वाक he बना to the वर्जिनिया Convention.
On that day, at St. John 's Church in Richmond, Virginia, and is credited with having swung the balance in convincing the वर्जिनिया हाउस of burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
Among the delegates to the convention were future US Presidents Thomas Jefferson and George Washington.
Newfoundland और labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the country 's Atlantic region, it incorporates the island of Newfoundland and मेनलैंड labrador to the उत्तरपश्चिम, with a combined area of.
In 2011, the province 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 514,536.
लगभग 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its associated smaller islands ), of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of residents reporting English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was also home to unique varieties of French, and Irish, as खूब as the now-extinct Beothuk language.
In labrador, लोकल dialects of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut are also spoken.
Newfoundland और labrador 's पूंजी और largest city, St. John 's, is Canada 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area, and is home to almost 40 percent of the province 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of government, home to the House of सभा of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador और the उच्चतम court in the jurisdiction, the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom, Newfoundland and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian कनफेडरेशन on March 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
On December 6, 2001, an amendment was made to the Constitution of Canada to change the province 's official name to Newfoundland and Labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, Canadians generally still refer to the province itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador.
थियोडोर `` T.R. ''
Roosevelt, jr. ( ; अक्तूबर 27, 1858—January 6, 1919 ) was the 26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his exuberant व्यक्तित्व, दायरा of रूचि और उपलब्धियाँ, और उसके नेतृत्व of the Progressive Movement, as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity.
He was a leader of the Republican Party and founder of the first incarnation of the short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
पहले becoming President, he held offices at the city, state, and federal levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, एक्सप्लोरर, शिकारी, लेखक, और सिपाही are as much a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901, making him the youngest president ever ; he beat out the youngest निर्वाचित president, John F. Kennedy, by only one year.
Roosevelt was also the first of तभी तीन बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों to have won the Nobel Peace Prize.
The Teddy bear is named after him, despite उसके अवमानना लिये being called `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in New यॉर्क नगर, रूज़वेल्ट थी a sickly child who suffered from asthma and stayed at home studying natural history.
To overcome उसके शारीरिक weakness, he embraced a strenuous life.
home-schooled, he became an eager student of nature.
He attended Harvard University, where he studied जीवविज्ञान, boxed और विकसित an interest in naval affairs.
In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York State Assembly, where he became a leader of the reform faction of his Republican पार्टी ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his professional प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर इतिहासकार ; he wrote numerous books on hunting, the outdoors, and current political issues, as well as frontier history.
in 1884, his first wife and his mother died on the same day.
He temporarily left politics and went to the frontier, becoming a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran for mayor in 1886, finishing तीसरा साथ 60,000 votes.
He later gained fame by लेने vigorous charge of the city police.
At the national level, he was a leader in civil सेवा सुधार.
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while Roosevelt थी, effectively, कार्यशील the Department of the Navy.
He promptly resigned and formed the Rough Riders – a volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba.
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 और in 1900 was nominated for vice president.
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley on a platform of high tariffs, the gold standard, imperialism, prosperity at home and victory abroad.
In 1901, President William McKinley was assassinated and Roosevelt became President.
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism, including trust busting and increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his पूर्ववर्ती, जीतना the largest percentage of the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic agenda, emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman और naturalist, he promoted the conservation movement.
On the world stage, Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by his slogan, `` बोलो softly और carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common ancestor ( s ) ( other than a parent, child/descendant, सहोदर, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
However in common parlance, `` cousin '' normally specifically means `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are प्रयुक्त in the english-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the ancestor they have in common.
विभिन्न सरकारी entities have स्थापित प्रणालियों for legal use that can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any number of generations in the past, though common usage often eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from September 16, 1983 until May 8, 1987, और in first-run syndication from September 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The series was निर्मित by Stu Silver.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who, after losing his parents, is adopted by his NFL -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by एलेक्स karras, और उसके नई socialite wife, played by Susan Clark.
the फ़ोकस थी largely on कैसा इस impulsively married couple had to adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood, but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot.
The series was produced by Georgian Bay Ltd., Emmanuel Lewis Entertainment Enterprises, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and सर्वोपरि टेलीविज़न.
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes, Webster featured a young african-american लड़के adopted by a white family.
Three types of कोशिका प्रभाग
Cell division is the process by which a जनक कोशिका divides into दो or अधिक daughter cells.
Cell division usually occurs as भाग of a larger cell cycle.
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division, whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent cell ( समसूत्रण ), and a reductive cell division, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in their life cycle, and both are believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission, where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of organism, are preceded by a single round of DNA replication.
For simple unicellular जीवों such as the amoeba, one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is created.
On a larger scale, mitotic cell division can create progeny from बहुकोशिकीय जीवों, ऐसे as plants that grow from cuttings.
Cell division also enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
And बाद विकास, cell division allows for continual construction and repair of the organism.
A human being 's body experiences about 10,000 trillion cell divisions in a आजीवन.
Cell division has been modeled by परिमित subdivision rules.
The primary concern of cell प्रभाग is the maintenance of the original cell 's genome.
Before division can occur, the genomic information that is stored in chromosomes must be replicated, and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells.
A great deal of cellular अवसंरचना is involved in keeping genomic information consistent between `` generations ''.
Mountain ranges of मैसाचुसेट्स, संयुक्त States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, England ) is a British संगीतकार, singer and songwriter.
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit Singles & Albums, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
Jones, who was equally popular in the U.S., appeared at Live Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` Jones was one of the धमक आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music merged the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive ध्वनि of New Wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s, before he retreated into being a cult फिगर in the 1990s ''.
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a मोटरसाइकिल रेसिंग इवेंट आयोजित on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 पहले होने transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season.
the आइल of man TT Races became part of the TT Formula 1 Championship from 1977 to 1990 to preserve the event 's racing status.
From 1989 the racing has been developed by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism as the Isle of Man TT Festival.
The race is run in a time-trial format on public roads closed for racing by the प्रावधानों of an अधिनियम of tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ).
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 and was called the International auto-cycle पर्यटक ट्रॉफी.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of the St John 's Short Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards for road-legal touring मोटरसाइकिल साथ exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder class, and overall winner of the first event in 1907, was चार्ली collier सवारी a matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph.
The winner of the twin-cylinder class was Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a time of 4 hours 21 minutes और 52 सेकेंड at an average race speed of 36.21 mph.
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race, was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. मंगल.
It featured a stylised version of Olympic God Hermes by Giovanni Da Bologna as a चांदी figurine astride a winged wheel.
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car रेस in 1905 अभी ज्ञात as the rac पर्यटक ट्रॉफी.
The बिल्ले de mouzilly st. Mars Trophy is now presented annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 May and 8 June 2007 and featured a special Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the गाँव green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage परेड of 100 क्लासिक motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on the original St John 's Short Course was flagged away by former World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke.
The first of the भागीदार to be flagged दूर थी the recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907.
Also participating in the 2007 re-enactment थी tt रेस प्रतिस्पर्धी guy मार्टिन सवारी a 1938 Triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT competitors including Alan Cathcart, Sammy Miller, Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs when people are without work and actively seeking work.
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of बेरोजगार individuals by सब individuals फिलहाल in the मजदूर force.
During periods of recession, an economy usually experiences a relatively ऊँची बेरोजगारी rate.
According to International Labour Organization report, more than 197 लाख लोगों globally are out of work or 6 % of the world 's workforce were without a job in 2012.
There remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the causes, consequences और समाधान लिये बेरोजगारी.
शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्र, नई शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्र, और the आस्ट्रिया स्कूल of अर्थशास्त्र argue कि मार्केट mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय अर्थात् of resolving बेरोजगारी.
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside, such as unionization, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and recommends सरकारी interventions in the अर्थव्यवस्था that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions.
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and thus reduce माँग for workers.
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include financial stimuli, publicly funded job creation, and expansionist monetary policies.
In addition to ये व्यापक theories of unemployment, there are a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system.
The main types of बेरोजगारी शामिल structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets, including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and समाधान सम्बन्धित to विघटनकारी technologies and globalization.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their own work and how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता job entry threshold and wage rates.
Behavioral अर्थशास्त्रियों हाइलाइट व्यक्तिगत biases in decision making, and often involve problems and solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages.
Collectivism is any philosophic, political, religious, economic, or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a society or civilization.
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the रिवर्स of व्यक्तिगत in human nature ( in the same way high context culture exists as the reverse of low context culture ).
Collectivist orientations तनाव the महत्व of cohesion within social groups ( such as an `` in-group '', in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases, the priority of group goals over individual goals.
Collectivists often focus on community, society, nation or country.
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political, economic and educational philosophies throughout history and most human societies in practice contain elements of both व्यक्तिगत and collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist संस्कृतियों include India and Japan.
collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism and vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, and is thus usually based on decentralization and egalitarianism.
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power and on moral and cultural conformity, and is इसलिए आधारित on centralization and hierarchy.
A cooperative enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism, whereas a सैन्य पदानुक्रम would be an example of vertical collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an प्रतिरक्षा mediated disease of the brain.
It usually occurs following a viral infection but may appear following टीकाकरण, bacterial or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously.
As it involves असंक्राम्य demyelination, it is similar to multiple sclerosis, and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is परिचय 8 per 1,000,000 people per year.
Although it occurs in all ages, most reported cases are in children and adolescents, with the average age around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 %, full recovery is देखी in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability.
The औसत समय to recover is one to six months.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord, but periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex, thalami और basal ganglia may भी be involved.
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating एपीसोड, it is पुकारा तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the पाचन system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in some animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
It is involved in the second phase of digestion, following mastication ( chewing ).
The stomach is located between the esophagus और the छोटी intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting एंजाइमों पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in खाना पाचन, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines.
The word stomach is derived from the लैटिन stomachus जिससे is निकला इससे the यूनानी word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately from stoma ( ), `` mouth ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning related to the पेट ) हैं दोनो derived from the Greek word gaster ( ).
1940 Pontiac Special श्रेणी 25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style, especially a station wagon, where the पश्च bodywork is constructed of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the demise of actual wood construction, manufacturers used simulated woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional, simulated framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a series of side and rear आड़ा डोले.
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
Just like the shell of a clam, a पर्ल is बना up of calcium carbonate in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in concentric layers.
The ideal pearl is perfectly round और चिकना, but many other shapes of pearls ( baroque pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and objects of beauty for many centuries, and because of this, the word pearl has become a metaphor for something बहुत विरल, ठीक, सराहनीय, और मूल्यवान.
The most valuable pearls occur अनायास in the जंगली, but they are extremely rare.
These wild pearls are referred to as प्राकृतिक मोती.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters और freshwater mussels make up the majority of those that are currently sold.
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry, but the quality of their iridescence is usually बहुत ग़रीब, and often, artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls.
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily for use in jewelry, but in the past they were भी सिले onto lavish कपडे.
Pearls have also been कुचल और प्रयुक्त in cosmetics, medicines, and in paint formulations.
Whether wild or cultured, gem quality pearls are almost always nacreous and, as is the आंतरिक of the शेल that produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs हैं सक्षम of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S. संघीय व्यापार आयोग rules, and are formed in the same way, most of them have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as Live Search, Windows Live Search, and MSN Search ) is a वेब search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft.
bing थी अनावरण by microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28, 2009 at the All Things Digital conference in San Diego for release on June 1.
Notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while queries are entered and a list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft खरीदा in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a deal in which Bing would power Yahoo ! Search.
All Yahoo ! Search global ग्राहक और साझेदार हैं अपेक्षित to have made the transition by early 2012.
In October 2011, Bing announced it was working on new back-end search infrastructure, साथ the लक्ष्य of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users.
Known as `` Tiger '', the new index-serving technology has been incorporated into bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of its search इंजन कि शामिल `` Sidebar '', a social feature that searches users ' social networks for information relevant to the search query.
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, each team has eleven players on the field at one time.
The specific role that a खिलाड़ी takes on the field is called their position.
Under the modern rules of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, टीमों हैं अनुमत unlimited subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, विभिन्न विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : Airish fowk ) are an ethnic group who originate in Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe.
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 सालो ( according to पुरातत्व studies, see Prehistoric Ireland ).
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed to be descended इससे समूह ऐसे as the Nemedians, Fomorians, Fir Bolg, Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians.
lebor gabála érenn, a किताब of आयरिश mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants.
The main groups that interacted with the Irish in the Middle Ages include the Picts, Scots, and the Vikings.
Due to this contact, Icelanders are विख्यात लिये having कुछ Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High मध्य आयु, the अंग्रेज़ी बागानों और the subsequent English rule of the country introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland.
Welsh, Picts, Bretons, and small parties of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier times.
There have been many notable Irish people throughout history.
The 6th century Irish monk and मिशनरी columbanus is regarded as one of the `` fathers of Europe '', followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist Robert Boyle is considered the `` father of रसायन ``.
Famous Irish explorers include Brendan the नाविक, Robert McClure, Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean.
By some accounts, the first European child born in उत्तर अमेरिका था आयरिश descent on दोनो sides ; and an Irishman was the first European to set foot on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of Irish people living in many western countries, particularly in English-speaking countries.
Historically, emigration has been caused by politics, famine and economic issues.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people, primarily in the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia, Canada and Iceland ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
the largest क्रमांक of वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों सजीव in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is higher, as a percentage of total population, than कि of कोई अन्य country.
Approximately forty percent of the settlement जनसांख्यिकी of आइसलैंड आए इससे आयरलैंड or Scotland.
The very first inhabitants of Iceland यहूद Irish.
The Hubble Space Telescope ( hst ) is a स्पेस दूरदर्शी that was carried into orbit by a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in operation.
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit, Hubble 's four main instruments observe in the near ultraviolet, दृश्य, और निकट इन्फ्रारेड.
the दूरदर्शी is named after the astronomer Edwin Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to take extremely sharp बिंब साथ लगभग no पृष्ठभूमि light.
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most detailed visible-light बिंब कभी, allowing a deep view into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe.
Although not the first space telescope, हबल is एक of the largest and most versatile, and is well known as both a vital research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy.
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA, with contributions from the European Space Agency, and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute.
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories, along साथ the कॉम्पटन गामा रे Observatory, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes were proposed as early as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, with a proposed launch in 1983, but the project was beset by technical delays, budget problems, and the Challenger disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, scientists found that the main mirror had been ground incorrectly, compromising the दूरदर्शी 's सामर्थ्य.
The telescope was restored to its intended विशेषता by a सर्विसिंग mission in 1993.
Hubble is the only telescope designed to be सर्विस in स्पेस by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, and replaced systems on the telescope ; a fifth mission was canceled on safety grounds following the कोलंबिया विपत्ति.
However, after spirited public discussion, NASA administrator Mike Griffin approved one final servicing mission, completed in 2009 by स्पेस शटल अटलांटिस.
the telescope is now expected to function until at least 2013.
Its scientific successor, the James Webb Space Telescope ( JWST ), is to be शुभारम्भ in 2018 or possibly later.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a substance or treatment that reduces सूजन.
anti-inflammatory दवाएँ मेक up परिचय half of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids, which affect the central nervous system.
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk show that has aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the us and the third longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today.
The Tonight Show थी hosted by स्टीव एलन ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ), Jay Leno ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
अनेक अतिथि होस्ट भी appeared, particularly during the Paar and Carson eras.
The longest-serving host to date was Johnny Carson, who hosted The Tonight Show अभिनीत जॉनी कार्सन लिये 30 सीज़न इससे the पतन of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current host of the show is Jay Leno, who had previously hosted the show from 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, एनबीसी घोषित Jimmy Fallon would become the new host of The Tonight Show.
The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon will premiere February 24, 2014, the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 शीत Olympics.
SS Andrea Doria.
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa, Italy, most famous for its sinking in 1956, जब 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria, the ship had a gross register tonnage of 29,100 and a क्षमता of परिचय 1,200 यात्री and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy और reputation after World War II, Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride.
Of all Italy 's ships at the समय, Andrea Doria was the largest, fastest and supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 June 1951, the ship undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953.
On 25 July 1956, while the Andrea Doria was approaching the coast of Nantucket, Massachusetts, bound for New York City, the eastbound of the Swedish अमरीकी लकीर collided साथ it in कया became एक of इतिहास 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started to list severely to starboard, which left half of its lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of life, but the efficiency of the ship 's technical design allowed it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming.
The good behavior of the crew, improvements in communications and the rapid response of other ships averted a disaster similar in scale to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew were बचाया और बच, जबकि 46 people died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated luxury लाइनर capsized and sank the following morning.
This दुर्घटना remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
The incident and its aftermath were heavily covered by the news media.
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable, the cause of the collision with the Stockholm and the loss of एंड्रिया डोरिया उत्पन्न much ब्याज in the मीडिया और many lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the two shipping companies during hearings immediately after the disaster, no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published.
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the इतालवी लाइनर, अधिक recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course, leading to errors on both ships.
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before aircraft became the preferred विधि of travel.
Dialysis tubing
Dialysis tubing is a प्रकार of सेमi- or partially permeable झिल्ली tubing बना इससे regenerated cellulose or सेलोफेन.
It can be used for diffusion with solutes or osmosis if used with water only.
Osmosis is when water passes through a semi-permeable परत to reach equilibrium.
Diffusion, on the other hand, allows the गति of अणुओं from high concentration to low concentration.
It will only allow अणुओं to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the molecule is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore.
This usually results with the effects of diffusion through a membrane only really affects small अणुओं, और लगभग never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical circumstances to ensure a filtered flow of molecules, preventing the flow of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a solution which is pumped through the tubing into a solvent, usually water, which surrounds it and in which वे can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing several types of molecules, usually glucose and starch, is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, such as a cellulose झिल्ली साथ छिद्र, और the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band.
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in a container of a different solution, or water.
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water, salts, monosaccharides, and other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger molecules ( such as proteins, or polysaccharides ) that have आयाम significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane, like dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to पहुँचें संतुलन, जहाँ the solute विशेषज्ञता of each solution is in equilibrium.
Mercury laboratory थर्मामीटर
A thermometer ( from the यूनानी, thermos, meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον, metron, `` measure '' ) is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles.
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature सेंसर ( e.g. the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in which some physical change occurs with temperature, plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
There are many types and many uses for thermometers, as विस्तृत below in sections of this article.
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी and released by RKO Radio Pictures.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and the earliest in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड Classics series.
The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, Merrill De Maris, Otto Englander, Earl Hurd, Dick Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb Smith.
David Hand was the supervising director, while William Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, Perce Pearce, और बेन sharpsteen निर्देशित the फिल्मी 's व्यक्तिगत sequences.
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a nationwide release on February 4, 1938, और साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय आय of $ 8 लाख दौरान its initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound film at the time.
the लोकप्रियता of the film has led to it being re-released theatrically many times, until its home video release in the 1990s.
Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the top ten performers at the North American बक्सा दफ्तर.
At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt Disney was awarded an honorary Oscar, and the film was nominated लिये बेहतरीन Musical Score.
It was added to the संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute 's list of the 100 greatest American films, who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008.
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big cultural impact, resulting in a popular theme park attraction, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the cervix, descent and जनम of the शिशु, और birth of the placenta.
In many cases and with increasing frequency, childbirth is achieved through प्रेरण of labor or caesarean section, which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen, rather than through vaginal birth.
प्रसव by c-sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006, and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With respect to induced labor, more than 22 % of women undergo प्रेरण of श्रमिक in the United States.
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well as harmful or without benefit to the mother, and have स्थापित सख्त दिशानिर्देश for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks.
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam margera और उसके क्रू as वे undertook challenges, performed stunts and traveled the world.
The show भागा लिये 5 seasons between 2003 and 2005.
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American computer animated action / adventure कॉमेडी film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell.
It was made in the partnership between Aardman एनिमेशन और ड्रीमवर्क्स एनिमेशन, और is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh Jackman, Kate Winslet, Andy Serkis, Bill nighy, इयान McKellen, Shane Richie and Jean Reno.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter Lord, Dick Clement, and Ian la frenais, और the पटकथा थी written by Dick Clement, Ian La Frenais, Christopher Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William Davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, and in UK on December 1 2006, and was distributed by Paramount Pictures, except for Switzerland, Spain, and the नीदरलैंड्स, जिससे यहूद संभाला by सार्वभौमिक Pictures.
The Atlanta braves हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल team based in Atlanta.
The Braves are a member of the Eastern Division of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's National League.
The Braves have played in टर्नर फ़ील्ड since 1997.
The `` Braves '' name, which was first used in 1912, originates from a term for a Native American warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the bravos '', और प्रायः referred to as `` अमेरिका 's टोली `` in reference to the team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball, winning division titles an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in कि काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there were no official division champions ).
The Braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the NL ईस्ट 1995–2005, और लौटे to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
The Braves advanced to the World Series five times in the 1990s, winning the title in 1995.
Since their debut in the National League in 1876, the franchise has won 16 डिवीजनल titles, 17 National League pennants, as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
The Braves are the only MLB franchise to have won the World श्रेणी in three different home cities.
the क्लबों is एक of the नेशनल लीग 's दो बाकी चार्टर franchises ( the अन्य होने the शिकागो शावक ) और थी संस्थापित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड stockings ( नहीं to be उलझन साथ the अमरीकी लीग 's बोस्टन रेड sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest लगातार playing team in major North American sports. ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season `` पुरानी '' ( formed as the शिकागो श्वेत stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो खोया two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire, thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons.
After various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ), the team operated as the Boston braves लिये सबसे of the पहला हाफ of the 20th century.
In 1953, the team moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee Braves, followed by the move to अटलांटा in 1966.
The team 's कार्यकाल in अटलांटा is प्रसिद्ध लिये Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career home run record in 1974, though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee.
His रिकार्ड stood until 2007, when San Francisco left fielder Barry Bonds broke the record.
The पत्ते of a Beech tree
3D rendering of a μCT scan of a leaf piece, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant, as पारिभाषित in वनस्पति terms, and in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a mass noun that refers to leaves as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a thin, flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis, but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ), some are not above ground ( such as bulb तराजू ), और कुछ हैं बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls, कांटे, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or even of some lichens, which हैं नहीं पौधे at सब ( in the sense of being members of the kingdom Plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
Furthermore, several structures found in vascular plants look like पत्ते लकिन हैं not actually leaves ; they differ from leaves in their structures and origins.
Examples include phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
Title card for the 1937 Our Gang comedy rushin ' Ballet.
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of American कॉमेडी छोटी films परिचय a समूह of ग़रीब neighborhood children and their adventures.
Created by comedy producer एचएएल रोच, the श्रेणी is विख्यात लिये प्रर्दशित children behaving in a अपेक्षाकृत natural way, as Roach and original director Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles.
In addition, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and blacks together in a समूह as बराबरी, कुछ that `` broke new ground, '' according to film historian Leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never been done before in cinema but has since been repeated after the success of Our Gang.
the पहला production at the Roach studio in 1922 was a series of silent short subjects.
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, और परिवर्तित the series to sound in 1929, the series took off even further.
Production continued at the Roach studio until 1938, when the series was sold to MGM, who then continued producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220 shorts and one feature film, General Spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark following their purchase of the production rights, the 80 Roach-produced `` talkies '' were syndicated लिये टेलीविज़न अंतर्गत the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have since remained in अनुप्रयोग, साथ आवधिक नई प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो, सहित a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg संबद्ध साथ the invention of the first optical telescope.
Janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the first truly compound microscope.
However, the उत्पत्ति of the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, बस like the origin of the telescope, is a matter of debate.
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater झील in the Sierra Nevada of the United States.
at a सतह elevation of, it is located along the border between California and Nevada, west of Carson City.
Lake Tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन झील in North America.
Its depth is, making it the United State 's second-deepest ( the deepest is Crater Lake in Oregon, being deeper, at ).
Additionally, Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th largest lake by volume in the world at.
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a part of the झील Tahoe Basin with the modern lake being shaped during the ice ages.
It is known for the clarity of इसके जल and the panorama of surrounding mountains on all sides.
The area surrounding the झील is भी referred to as Lake Tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in दोनो नेवाडा और कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
It is home to a number of ski रिसॉर्ट, गर्मियाँ outdoor recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow और स्कीइंग हैं a significant part of the area 's economy and reputation.
पहाड़ और झील नजारा are attractions throughout the year.
The Nevada पक्ष also includes large casinos.
Highways provide year-round access from Reno, Carson City, and Sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's certification in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
Page 3 of the amendment 's certification
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( amendment xxvii ) prohibits कोई विधि कि increases or decreases the salary of members of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives.
It is the most हाल amendment to the United States Constitution.
It was submitted to the states for ratification in 1789 और थी अपनाया in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the सुस्ती of जर्मनी intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets, group after group.
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ; the content of the quotation may have been presented differently by Niemöller on अलग occasions.
This list of islands by area includes all आइलैंड्स in the world greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by area.
For comparison, continents are भी shown.
Four Thirds लोगो
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by ओलम्पस और कोडक लिये डिजिटल single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that, with digital cameras and lenses available from multiple manufacturers, allows for the interchange of lenses और लाशें from different manufacturers.
seems to कवर the standard.
Proponents describe it as an खोलें मानक, लकिन कंपनियाँ may only use it under a non-disclosure agreement.
Unlike older SLR systems, Four Thirds has been designed from the ground up to be entirely डिजिटल.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the point that Olympus offers firmware अद्यतन for many of them.
Lens design has been tailored to the requirements of digital sensors, most notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the sensor is significantly smaller than for most DSLRs and this implies कि lenses, विशेषकर telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For उदाहरण, a चार तिहाई लेंस साथ a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more compact.
Thus, the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2, and while this enables longer focal length for greater आवर्धन, it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses.
The image सेंसर स्वरूप, generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger slrs और छोटी कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे, generally देता स्तर of लागत, प्रदर्शन और convenience इंटरमीडिएट between those दो वर्ग.
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air to a room through outlet vents, called diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) is the technology of indoor and automotive पर्यावरणीय comfort.
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR, or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the designation of hacr-rated सर्किट breakers ).
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as aquariums, where safe and healthy building conditions are regulated with respect to तापमान और आर्द्रता, using भैस एयर इससे outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught system, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries made by Nikolay Lvov, Michael Faraday, Willis Carrier, Reuben Trane, जेम्स जूल, विलियम rankine, sadi carnot, and many others.
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution, and new methods of modernization, higher efficiency, and system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide.
The three central functions of heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning are interrelated, especially with the need to provide thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality भीतर उचित संस्थापना, आपरेशन, और maintenance costs.
HVAC systems can provide ventilation, reduce air घुसपैठ, और maintain दबाव relationships between spaces.
The means of air delivery और हटाना इससे स्पेसेस is known as room air distribution.
The starting पाइंट in carrying आउट an अनुमान both for cooling and heating depends on the exterior climate and interior specified conditions.
However before taking up the ऊष्मा लोड calculation, it is necessary to find fresh air requirements for each area in detail, as pressurization is an important consideration.
In modern buildings the design, installation, and control systems of these functions are integrated into one or more HVAC systems.
For बहुत small buildings, contractors normally capacity engineer and select HVAC systems and equipment.
लिये larger इमारतें, भवन सेवाएं designers and engineers, such as mechanical, architectural, or building services engineers analyze, design, and specify the HVAC systems, and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the installations are normally required for all sizes of buildings.
The HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise, with roles including operation and maintenance, प्रणाली डिज़ाइन और निर्माण, equipment manufacturing and sales, and in education and research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment, but regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI, ASHRAE, SMACNA, ACCA, Uniform Mechanical Code, International Mechanical Code, and AMCA have been स्थापित to support the उद्योग and encourage high standards and achievement.
Royal Navy Commander James Bond, CMG, RNVR, is a fictional अक्षर created by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the protagonist of the James Bond series of novels, films, कॉमिक्स और वीडियो games.
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two short story collections before his death, although the last two books— The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously.
The बंध अक्षर is a Secret Service agent, code number 007, residing in London but active internationally.
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during his service in the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II, to whom Fleming added his own style and a number of his own tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated इससे अमरीकी ornithologist James Bond.
बंध रै a क्रमांक of character traits which run throughout the books, including an enjoyment of cars, a love of food and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since Fleming 's death in 1964, there have been other authorised writers of Bond सामग्री, सहित जॉन गार्डनर, जो लिखा चौदह novels और two novelizations and Raymond Benson, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and three short stories.
There have also been three authors who wrote one book each, Kingsley Amis ( writing as Robert Markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver.
additionally a श्रेणी of novels आधारित on Bond 's youth— Young Bond —was written by Charlie Higson.
As spin-offs from the literary works, there was a टेलीविज़न अनुकूलन of the पहला अनोखा, Casino Royale, in which Bond was played as an American agent.
A comic strip series also भागा in the Daily Express newspaper.
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ; सात अभिनेताओं have played Bond in these films.
`` Nature Boy '' is a song by ईडन Ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy... who wandered very far '' only to learn that `` the greatest thing... was just to love and be loved in return ''.
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a major hit and `` Nature लड़के '' रै चूंकि become a pop and jazz standard, with dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a state located in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive and the 25th most populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
इसके पूंजी is baton रूज और largest नगर is नई Orleans.
Louisiana is the तभी राज्य in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes, which are local government 's equivalent to counties.
The largest parish by population is East Baton Rouge Parish, and the largest by जमीन क्षेत्रफल is cameron Parish.
Much of the state 's lands were formed from sediment washed down the Mississippi River, leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp.
These contain a rich southern biota ; typical उदाहरण शामिल birds such as ibis and egrets.
There are also many species of tree मेंढक, और मछली such as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, fire is a natural process in the landscape, and has produced extensive areas of longleaf pine वन और गीला savannas.
ये support an exceptional विशाल क्रमांक of संयंत्र प्रजाति, सहित अनेक प्रजाति of orchids और मांसाहारी पौधे.
Some Louisiana शहरी environments have a multicultural, बहुभाषी heritage, being so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French, Spanish, Native American ( Indian ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the American purchase of the territory, the current Louisiana State had been दोनो a स्पेनी और फ्रेंच colony.
In addition, the pattern of development included importing numerous African slaves in the 18th century, साथ many from the same region of West Africa, thus concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil War environment, Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization, and in 1915, English was made the only official language of the state.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls of many समाजों worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or समर्थित by law, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं और लड़कियों in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
The laws of विज्ञान or वैज्ञानिक laws are statements that describe, predict, and perhaps explain why, a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature.
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many मामले : सन्निकट, accurate, broad or narrow theories, in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics, chemistry, biology, geology, astronomy etc. ).
An analogous term for a scientific law is a principle.
वैज्ञानिक laws:
summarize a विशाल संग्रहण of facts determined by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to predict the outcome of an experiment, given the initial, boundary, and other physical conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical प्रमाण - वे हैं वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान that experiments have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ).
उनके सटीकता करता नहीं बदलें when new theories are worked out, but rather the scope of application, since the equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, they do not have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or identities, and it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations.
are often quoted as a fundamental controlling influence rather than a description of observed तथ्य.
I.e. `` the laws of गति आवश्यकता that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates, which are proposed during the scientific process before and during validation by प्रयोग और अवलोकन.
These are not laws since they have not महरूम सत्यापित to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general, although they may lead to the formulation of laws.
A law is a more solidified and formal statement, distilled from दोहराया प्रयोग.
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to दर्शनशास्त्र, और presents the गहराई to जिससे गणित can describe nature, scientific laws are considered from a scientific perspective and follow the scientific method ; they `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For example, whether a law `` refers to reality '' is a philosophical issue, rather than scientific.
Fundamentally, all scientific laws follow from physics, laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws.
Often, इससे mathematically fundamental viewpoints, universal constants emerge from scientific laws.
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese मार्केट on 10 नवम्बर 2006 marked the second major seventh generation entertainment system to be released.
The system was released seven days later on 17 नवम्बर in the United States.
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device was launched in European and other world markets in the first half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and Grainger ) is a fictional character from the CBS soap operas The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
She made her debut during the episode airing on जनवरी 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began making sporadic appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful, later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995.
Following a guest appearance in 2000, Bregman returned to The Young and the बेचैन on अगस्त 24, 2001, बाकी on पुनरावर्ती status.
In 2013, it थी घोषित that Bregman had been placed on contract.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams, Scott Grainger, Sr., and Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly.
Lauren is also famous for her long, हिंसक rivalry with Sheila Carter.
the 2010 एनबीए फाइनल थी the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) championship series for the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los एंजिल्स लेकर्स, champions of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन and defending NBA champions, and the Boston Celtics, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers defeated the Celtics, four games to three, to win the मताधिकार 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the championship series was played between June 3 and June 17, was broadcast on ABC, and was watched by an औसत of 18.1 लाख people.
The Celtics earned their berth into the playoffs by जीतना the अटलांटिक Division.
The Lakers won the Pacific Division to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA फाइनल by defeating the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven पूर्वी Conference First Round, the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals, and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA फाइनल by defeating the ओक्लाहोमा नगर थंडर in the best-of-seven Western Conference First Round, the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals, and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals.
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format, with the Lakers possessing home-court advantage as a reward लिये finishing साथ बेहतर नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड than the Celtics.
दोहराया baskets from starters Kobe Bryant, Pau Gasol, and Ron Artest brought the Lakers close to victory in Game 1.
A record breaking प्रदर्शन इससे रे एलन 's eight three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 अंक in the चौथी quarter helped the Lakers win Game 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent प्रदर्शन in baskets by the team’s reserves, while Paul Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor.
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive Game 6 with 24 points contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 अंक जल्दी in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied and won their second consecutive championship by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding.
ब्रायंट थी नामित सबसे मूल्यवान Player of the Finals for his second consecutive trophy.
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven खेल चूंकि और तभी the चौथी चूंकि the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in.
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( Five in Minneapolis, 11 in Los Angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the New York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey लीग सात खेल श्रेणी format until 1985.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is approximately in diameter, dark red when fully वयस्क, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described simply as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( सूखी unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008.
सूखी मैदान pepper has been used since antiquity for both its flavour and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's most traded मसाला.
It is one of the most common spices added to यूरोपीय cuisine and its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, नहीं to be उलझन with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, often paired with salt.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the बाएँ ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF.
noninvasive हृदय इमेजिंग रै become a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively.
सरलीकृत, ejection fraction is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a गणितीय पद, Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
the अभियोजक is the मुख्य विधिक प्रतिनिधि of the prosecution in countries with either the common law adversarial system, or the civil law inquisitorial system.
The prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial against an individual accused of breaking the law.
Strawberry shortcake most commonly means a dessert in the shortcake family of cakes.
Strawberry shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry Shortcake, a character and franchise निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई
The shortened title of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the Shortcake, a Japanese romance movie.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally माना by Muslims as the last prophet sent by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of आदम, नूह, अब्राहम, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an early age and brought up under the परवाह of उसके ताऊ abu तालिब.
He later worked mostly as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ, he बाद reported कि it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक ``, कि पूरा `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the वही vein as other Islamic prophets.
मुहम्मद gained few followers early on, and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in मक्का migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the शुरूआत of the Islamic calendar, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his followers, who by then had grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in पूर्वी अरब.
In 632, a few months after returning to Medina from The Farewell Pilgrimage, Muhammad fell बीमार और died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to islam, और he था संयुक्त अरब into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of शरीयत law.
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever उनके names are mentioned.
While conceptions of मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom and premodern times were largely negative, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
The ग्रेट Books ( second edition )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally published in the United States in 1952 by ब्रिटैनिका विश्वकोष inc. to उपस्थित the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes.
The श्रेणी is अभी in its second edition and contains 60 volumes.
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues, and not only important in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great विचार पहचाना by the editors.
Books यहूद not chosen on the basis of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness, historical influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a सोंग लिखा and recorded by JJ Cale in 1976, but also known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` even लिये an कलाकार like Clapton with a huge body of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked with The Who, Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones, produced the Clapton recording, which was released on क्लैप्टन 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The live version of `` Cocaine '', from the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo, charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of Cale 's songs अंकित by Clapton, including `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the संयुक्त राज्य नवल आधार at पर्ल हार्बर, हवाई, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in दो waves, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were बाद उठाया, और साथ the remaining four repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training जलयान, और एक minelayer.
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed और 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the प्रज्ञा section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One जापानी नाविक was captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the United States declared war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, which had been दमदार, disappeared.
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 थी the second season of Bravo 's successful Project Runway, a reality competition for fashion designers.
Season 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide search earlier in the year, सोलह designers were chosen as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June, 2005.
After the first challenge, called `` Road To The Runway '', fourteen went on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, Chloe Dao, received $ 100,000 in बीज धन to सहायता लॉन्च उसके अपना लकीर, a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster, a spread in ELLE magazine, and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team.
जीतना alongside dao थी उसके मॉडल, अनुग्रह kelsey, जो प्राप्त the elle पत्रिका स्प्रेड.
Michael Kors and नीना Garcia returned as judges for the second season.
The fourth judging seat rotated each week, based on the चुनौती.
Tim Gunn, fashion chair at Parsons The New स्कूल लिये डिज़ाइन, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx later appeared in Project Runway : All Stars in 2012, where she finished 7th out of 13.
Andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the second season of the All Stars संस्करण रखकर 10th आउट of 13.
An example of a heraclius mule
In numismatics, a mule is a coin or medal minted with obverse and reverse डिजाइन नहीं सामान्यतः seen on the same piece.
These can be intentional or उत्पादित by error.
This type of error is highly sought after, and उदाहरण can लाने steep कीमतें from collectors.
The earliest mules are मिला among प्राचीन Greek and Roman coins.
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental, the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one that had officially been withdrawn from use, or the work of coiners working with dies stolen from an आधिकारिक मिंट, शायद at a समय जब एक of उन्हें चाहिए have been destroyed.
The name derives from the mule, the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey, due to such a coin having दो पहलू intended for different coins, much as a mule has parents of two different species.
This पेज दस्तावेज़ the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010.
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S., but they can occur almost anywhere under the right शर्तें.
A lesser number occur outside the U.S., सबसे notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern Hemisphere 's summer season, but are also known in South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
Elsewhere in the world, 11 people were killed in tornadoes, छह in अर्जेंटीना, तीन in the Bahamas, one in Bangladesh, and one in Germany.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an अत्यधिक quiet early spring period, however such changed after a huge upswing starting in late April and a busy late spring and summer period.
The autumn months were slightly above औसत.
A lymphocyte is a type of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells.
Windows powershell is microsoft 's task automation framework, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on.NET Framework.
PowerShell provides full अभिगम to com और wmi, enabling administrators to perform administrative tasks on both local and remote Windows systems.
In PowerShell, administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ), which are specialized.NET classes implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in scripts, executables ( which are standalone applications ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ).
These कार्य by accessing आंकड़ा in अलग data stores, like the filesystem or registry, which are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers.
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications.
These applications can तब उपयोग खिड़कियाँ powershell functionality to implement certain operations, including those exposed via the graphical interface.
This capability has been used by Microsoft एक्सचेंज सर्वर 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft एसक्यूएल सर्वर 2008 also expose their management interface via PowerShell cmdlets.
With PowerShell, graphical interface-based management applications on Windows are layered on top of Windows powershell.
A PowerShell scripting interface for Windows उत्पाद is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria.
Windows PowerShell includes its own extensive, console-based help, similar to man pages in Unix shells, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews, Dick Van Dyke, David Tomlinson, and Glynis Johns, produced by Walt डिज़्नी, और आधारित on the मरियम poppins books series by P. L. Travers.
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh and Don DaGradi, with songs by the Sherman भाइयो.
It was shot at Walt Disney studios in burbank, California.
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film Editing, Original म्यूज़िक स्कोर, बेहतरीन सोंग लिये `` Chim Chim Cher-ee '' and Best Visual Effects, and received a total of 13 nominations.
A story arc is an extended or continuing कथानक in episodic storytelling media such as television, comic books, comic strips, boardgames, video games, and in some cases, films.
On a television program, for example, the स्टोरी would unfold over many episodes.
In television, the use of the story arc is much more आम in dramas than in comedies, especially in soap operas.
webcomics हैं अधिक संभावित to उपयोग story arcs than newspaper comics, as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on.
Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in relation to the television series Wiseguy, and was quickly adapted for other uses.
Many American comic book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series.
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the कैज़ुअल reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics.
Black Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United States, often regarded as the beginning of the क्रिसमस shopping season.
In recent years, most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the holiday shopping season, similar to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is not an official public holiday as such, but many non-retail employees and schools have both Thanksgiving and the day बाद off, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005, although news reports, which at that time were inaccurate, have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी day of the year for a much longer period of time.
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia, where it originally was used to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving.
Use of the term started पहले 1961 and began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an वैकल्पिक स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : that `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For many years, it थी common for retailers to open at 6:00 a.m., but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011, when several retailers ( सहित निशाना, kohl 's, macy 's, Best Buy, and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time.
In 2012, Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where opening on थैंक्सगिविंग is निषिद्ध due to ब्लू कानून, ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स जहाँ वे स्टिल खोली around midnight ), prompting calls for a walkout among some workers.
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting aggressive crowds, with annual reports of assaults, shootings, और throngs of लोगों trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out.
The Family That Preys is a 2008 अमरीकी फिल्म नाटक लिखा, produced, and directed by Tyler Perry.
The screenplay focuses on two families, one wealthy and the other working class, whose lives are intertwined in both love और कारोबार.
The फिल्म is the दूसरी of चार in जिससे Perry 's signature character, Madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's Little Girls ) that is not based on कोई of the फिल्मकार 's stage plays.
Net 10, Net 15, Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days, et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify कि the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the seller within 10, 15, 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are often coupled साथ a credit for early payment.
The word net in this sense means `` total बाद all discounts. ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( elegant, trim ), and more recently from the French net ( sharp, neat, clean ).
Roadtown, tortola
The British West Indies were the islands in and around the Caribbean that were part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas, Barbados, British Guiana, British होंडुरास, जमैका ( with its dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ), Trinidad and Tobago, the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the island territories मगर the अंग्रेजों वर्जिन आइलैंड्स, the बहामा, British Honduras and British Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation.
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a सिंगल स्वदेश, लकिन it था सीमित powers, many practical problems, and a lack of popular support.
नतीजतन, the West Indies Federation was dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now independent as separate countries, with membership to many international forums such as the संगठन of अमरीकी States, the Association of Caribbean States, the World Trade Organization, the United Nations, the Caribbean Community, the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others.
The remainder are British विदेशी territories.
All the former nations of the British West Indies, except the Commonwealth of Dominica, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago, हैं राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
The term is still used for British Overseas Territories in the Caribbean, such as the केमन Islands.
The remaining British West इंडीज
`` What a Wonderful संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by Louis आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group, कार्लिन म्यूज़िक corp., और कीड़ा Music, Inc.
Inauguration Day 2009 on the west steps of the U.S. Capitol.
President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural परेड bas पेन्सिलवेनिया Avenue to the White House, 2005
The inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial इवेंट अंकन the शुरुआत of a new four-year term of a president of the United States.
The day a presidential inauguration occurs is known as `` उद्घाटन दिन '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment, the date was March 4, the day of the year on which the Constitution of the United States first took effect in 1789 ; the पिछला उद्घाटन to लो प्लेस on the older date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent public presidential inauguration रस्म, the swearing in of अध्यक्ष Barack Obama to begin his second four-year term in office, took place on Monday, January 21, 2013.
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that the president make an oath or affirmation before that person can `` enter on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency.
However, over the years, various traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a simple oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, including parades, speeches, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy Carter, the primary Inauguration Day ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico.
Since the 1981 उद्घाटन of रोनाल्ड Reagan, the ceremony has been held at the Capitol 's West Front.
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 और reagan in 1985 यहूद स्थानांतरित indoors at the Capitol due to cold weather.
The War of 1812 and World War II caused two inaugurations to be held at अन्य locations in Washington, D.C.
When George Washington was inaugurated, the oath was administered by Robert Livingston, चांसलर of नई यॉर्क State, in 1789, and by William Cushing, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John Adams, no chief justice has छूटी an उद्घाटन Day.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday, the chief justice has administered the शपथ to the अध्यक्ष on the संडे privately और तब again the next day publicly.
When a new president takes over mid-term due to the मौत or इस्तीफा of a president, the oath of office is administered but formal, public inauguration events have not been held.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28, 1986 ), known by her stage name Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, अभिनेत्री और philanthropist.
Born and raised in New York City, she primarily पढ़ाई at the Convent of the Sacred Heart and briefly attended New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the rock music scene of Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
By the end of 2007, record executive and producer विंसेंट Herbert signed her to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records.
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, her vocal abilities captured the ध्यान of recording artist Akon, who also signed her to Kon Live Distribution, his own label under Interscope.
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording कलाकार following the रिलीज of उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, the कीर्ति ( 2008 ), जिससे थी a critical and commercial success that topped charts around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face ``.
बाद embarking on the the कीर्ति Ball Tour, she followed the album with The Fame Monster ( 2009 ), which spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad Romance ``, `` Telephone ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
The Fame Monsters success allowed उसके to embark on the eighteen-month long Monster Ball Tour, which later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time.
Her most recent album, Born This Way ( 2011 ), topped the charts of most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles, including `` Born This Way ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
Influenced by britney स्पीयर्स, दाउद बोवी, माइकल जैक्सन, Madonna, and Queen, Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant, diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion, performances and music videos.
As of October 2011, she has sold an estimated 23 million albums and 64 लाख singles worldwide and her singles are some of the best-selling worldwide.
Her achievements include five Grammy Awards and 13 MTV वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music, is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in US according to RIAA, is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine.
Besides her musical career, she involves herself साथ humanitarian causes and LGBT activism.
McKethan Stadium home of घड़ियाल बेसबॉल
A picture of the 1924 Baseball team
The Florida Gators baseball team represents the University of Florida in the sport of बेसबॉल.
The Florida Gators compete in Division i of the नेशनल Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA ), and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ).
They play their घर खेल in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the university 's Gainesville, Florida campus, and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program, the team has won twelve SEC championships and has appeared in eight College World Series tournaments.
`` Electioneering '' redirects यहाँ.
For the Radiohead song, see OK कंप्यूटर.
अध्यक्षीय campaign button for Abraham Lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the button shows a portrait of उसके कार्यशील mate hannibal Hamlin.
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group.
In democracies, political campaigns often refer to चुनावी अभियान, wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided.
In modern politics, the सबसे ऊँची profile political campaigns are focused on candidates for head of state or head of government, often a President or Prime Minister.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her daughter, Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12, 1815 – अक्तूबर 26, 1902 ) was an American social activist, abolitionist, and leading figure of the early women 's rights movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York, is often credited with initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United States.
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights, she was an active abolitionist together with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
नापसंद अनेक of those involved in the women 's rights movement, Stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women beyond voting rights.
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights, प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों, employment and income rights, divorce, the economic health of the family, and birth control.
वो थी भी an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement.
After the American Civil War, Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the women 's rights movement when she, together with Susan B. Anthony, declined to support passage of the fourteenth और पंद्रहवीं amendments to the United States Constitution.
वो opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights to African American men while women, black and white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond voting rights, led to the formation of two separate women 's rights संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined, साथ stanton as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त संगठन, लगभग twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's Bible and her आत्मकथा, साथ साथ अनेक आलेख और pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights.
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon George Bernard Shaw 's pygmalion and with book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
The story concerns Eliza Doolittle, a काकनी पुष्प लड़की जो takes वाक lessons इससे प्राध्यापक Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit, setting what was then the record for the longest run of कोई प्रमुख musical थिएटर उत्पादन in history.
It was followed by a hit लंदन production, a popular film version, and numerous revivals.
It has been पुकारा `` the perfect musical ''.
Deregulation is the act or process of removing or reducing state regulations.
It is therefore opposite of regulation, which refers to the process of the government regulating निश्चित activities.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 A.M., 8 F.M. plus 2 F.M. translators ) CBS Radio network which carries सजीव खेल प्रसारण of the Boston Bruins.
the संजाल 's फ्लैगशिप station is WBZ-FM /98.5- Boston, Massachusetts.
Dave Goucher announces play-by-play.
bob Beers provides color commentary.
This आलेख is परिचय the short story.
For the poem by Sara teasdale, देखिए There Will Come Soft Rains.
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray Bradbury which was first published in the May 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
Later that same year the स्टोरी थी शामिल in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, Han Chinese is the largest जातीय समूह in the संसार.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region, which sits in an area between south of the Hindu Kush in Afghanistan और the सिंधु नदी in पाकिस्तानी.
वे number around 50 million.
The Korowai people of Papua गिने बस around 3,000 people, and were uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially defined category आधारित on आम संस्कृति or nationality.
नस्ल can, लकिन करता नहीं have to, शामिल आम ancestry, रूप, भोजन, ड्रेसिंग स्टाइल, विरासत, इतिहास, भाषा or dialect, धर्म, प्रतीकों, परंपराओं, or अन्य सांस्कृतिक फ़ैक्टर.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through common characteristics which set the समूह apart from other groups.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 घंटों a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और साफ सौर energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These advantages हैं global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the Greek alphabet called the Cumaean alphabet, which was अपनाया और परिवर्धित by the etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further modified by the ancient Romans to लिखें the Latin language.
During the Middle Ages, the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages, direct descendants of लैटिन, as well as to Celtic, Germanic, Baltic, and some Slavic languages.
With the age of colonialism and Christian evangelism, the Latin script was spread overseas, and applied to indigenous American, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई, austroasiatic, and African languages.
More recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्वन्यात्मक वर्णमाला ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written standards for non-European languages, such as the African reference alphabet.
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article ), or other alphabets based on the Latin script, which is the basic set of letters common to the विभिन्न alphabets descended from the classical Latin one, such as the English alphabet.
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters, like the Rotokas alphabet, or add new अक्षर, जैसे the डैनिश और नॉर्वेजियाई alphabet.
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries, सहित the सृष्टि for Medieval Latin of lower case forms which did not exist in the Classical period.
The assassination of United States President Abraham Lincoln took place on Good Friday, April 14, 1865, as the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध was drawing to a close.
The assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate Army of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया, सामान्य रॉबर्ट E. Lee, surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated, though an unsuccessful attempt had been made on एंड्रयू जैक्सन 30 सालो पहले in 1835.
The assassination was नियोजित and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth, as part of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold, who were assigned to kill Secretary of State William H. Seward, and George atzerodt जो थी to मार वाइस अध्यक्ष Andrew Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the top तीन लोगों in the प्रशासन, Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government.
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American Cousin with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in Washington, D.C. on the night of अप्रैल 14, 1865.
He died early the next morning.
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed to wound seward, जबकि Atzerodt, Johnson 's would-be assassin, lost his nerve and fled Washington.
add-on might mean:
plug-in ( कम्प्यूटिंग ), a piece of software which enhances another software application and usually can not be run independently
Browser extension, which modifies the इंटरफ़ेस and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( मोज़िला ), a piece of software that enhances and customizes Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web site which serves as a repository of add-ons for mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Peripheral, an optional computer hardware component that significantly पूरक or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory, a piece of hardware used in conjunction with a video game console लिये playing वीडियो खेल
Club level seating is a special section of seating in modern sports stadiums.
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle of the stage of seating भाग, ऊपर the lower deck but below the upper deck.
They are प्रायः right next to the Luxury Boxes, either right above, right below, or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes.
Club Level seating is considered as higher class than sitting anywhere else in the arena, but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the Luxury Boxes, most club स्तर do नहीं wrap entirely around the arena.
Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an expansion of the मेज़ानाइन, while others give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable एक्सेप्शन to this is Emirates Stadium in London, which has a complete tier of club seating.
Club स्तर allow fans multiple levels of entertainment.
Club Level seating is open to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes, which gives अधिक of an बाहरी छाप at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
क्लबों स्तर seating is normally bought on a contract basis to allow for maximum profit on the part of the stadium.
The Club Level provides fans with special access to an indoor part of the arena exclusive to प्रशंसक with special tickets.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants, merchandise स्टैंड, और लाउंज क्षेत्रों of the stadium that are not otherwise available.
Concession स्टैंड और विक्रेता on the Club Level also often offer different menus than in other stands to give more of a special feel to the Club.
These areas are बंद बंद to the बाकी of the stadium, and they usually can only be accessed through the exclusive, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an इतालवी actress.
Loren is widely recognized as Italy 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध and honored actress.
She was the first actress of the talkie era to जीत an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये a non-english-speaking performance, for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women.
Her other awards include a Grammy Award, five खास सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award.
In 1995 she received the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievements, एक of अनेक ऐसे पुरस्कार.
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ), El Cid ( 1961 ), Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ), Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ), और A Special Day ( 1977 ).
In later सालो वो रै appeared in American blockbusters such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman 's prêt-à-porter, जिससे अर्जित her a Golden Globe nomination the same year.
She has also achieved critical and commercial success in tv फिल्मों such as Courage ( 1986 ).
Deaths for self-inflicted injuries per 100,000 निवासियों in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both religious and social pressures, और संभवतः completely unreported in some areas.
Nevertheless, from reported cases, certain रुझान हैं apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing suicide rates between nations is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves are not the cause, लकिन may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South Africa is a female boarding school founded in जनवरी 2007 और located in Henley on Klip near Meyerton, south of Johannesburg, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing शैक्षणिक and leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds.
Oprah Winfrey Leadership अकादमी लिये Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider ऑपरेटिंग in 31 बाज़ार across the Caribbean, Central America, and Oceania regions.
The company is owned by Irishman Denis O'Brien, is incorporated in Bermuda, and based in Jamaica.
It has परिचय 13 million wireless users.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा, अरूबा, बारबाडोस, बरमूडा, bonaire, the अंग्रेजों वर्जिन Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El Salvador, Fiji, French Guiana, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Martinique, Nauru, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a list of records of the FIFA World Cup and इसके योग्यता matches.
Hospital Emergency Codes are used in hospitals worldwide to alert staff to various emergencies.
The use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to staff, while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital.
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or printed on employee identification badges for ready reference.
Back of a hospital id बैज showing disaster codes.
Hospital emergency codes may denote अलग events at different hospitals, including nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at more than one facility, this may lead to confusion in emergencies, so वर्दी प्रणालियों have been proposed.
The route of the Eifel aqueduct, साथ इसके औसत slope.
The Eifel Aqueduct was एक of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire.
The aqueduct, constructed in AD 80, carried water some इससे the hilly Eifel region of what is now Germany to the ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spurs to additional springs are included, the length was.
The construction was almost entirely below ground, and the flow of the जल थी उत्पादित entirely by gravity.
A few bridges, including one up to in length, were needed to pass over valleys.
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts, the Eifel aqueduct was specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( Br.E. disulphide bond ) is a covalent bond, usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups.
The linkage is also called an SS-bond or disulfide bridge.
The overall कनेक्टिविटी is therefore R-S-S-R.
The शब्दावली is widely used in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the कनेक्शन is a persulfide, in analogy to its congener, peroxide ( R-O-O-R ), but this terminology is obscure and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal depiction of disulfide bond formation as an oxidation.
Westminster ऐबी is used for the coronation of British monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries कि preceded it, has been dominated, for over 1,400 years, by various forms of Christianity.
According to some surveys, a majority of नागरिकों स्टिल पहचानो with Christianity, although regular church attendance has fallen dramatically since the middle of the 20th century, and immigration and demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are recorded by नियमित सर्वेक्षण, the चार प्रमुख ones being the UK Census, the Labour Force Survey, the British Social Attitudes survey and the European Social Survey.
According to the 2001 UK census, Christianity is the major religion, followed by islam, हिंदुत्व, Sikhism, Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious affiliations has led commentators to variously describe the संयुक्त किंगडम as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian society.
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707, and consequently most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures लिये the व्यक्तिगत देशों of the United Kingdom, others may have a single structure covering England and Wales or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the relatively recent creation of उत्तरी आयरलैंड in 1921, most major religious groups in Northern Ireland are organised on an all-Ireland basis.
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark, नई जर्सी between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The six days of rioting, लूटने, और destruction left 26 dead and hundreds injured.
In United States college athletics, redshirt is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी of an athlete 's participation in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's athletic eligibility in a given खेल is चार सीज़न, a क्रमांक निकला इससे the चार years of academic classes that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university.
However, a छात्र खिलाड़ी may be offered the अवसर to redshirt for up to two years, which allows the athlete to spread those four years of eligibility over five, or sometimes six years.
In a redshirt year, a student athlete may attend classes at the college or university, practice with an एथलेटिक टोली, और पोशाक लिये खेल but he or she may not compete during the game.
Using this यांत्रिकी, a छात्र खिलाड़ी रै up to five academic years to use the four years of eligibility, thus becoming a fifth-year senior.
The term is used as a verb, noun, and क्रियाशील.
For example, a कोच may चुनें to redshirt a player who is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The opposite of this is a `` true freshman. ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the allies, और the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, सहित 60 लाख Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants यहूद killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी नीतियों of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर बैटल of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in इसके आक्रमण of East Prussia by the Germans.
In नवम्बर the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with revolutionaries, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central यूरोपीय was redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be कारकों contributing to World War II.
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states under the Marxist–Leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to say, `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist राज्य.
A communist state is a state where the means of उत्पादन हैं collectively owned by the society.
It has a form of government characterized by single-party नियम or dominant-party नियम of a कम्युनिस्ट party ( referred as Dictatorship of the Proletariat by its proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as defined by both Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From इस परिप्रेक्ष्य, the term Marxist-Leninist state is more appropriate.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of उत्पादन by the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी -run राज्य is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today, a communist state can also, for instance, refer to contemporary China and Vietnam, where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy.
According to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class, which in a socialist समाज is the working क्लास, so a समाजवादी state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
In practice, communist states do नहीं दरअसल refer to themselves as such.
They do this not to disguise the fact that the ruling party is communist, but rather because वे do not consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally पहचानो themselves as socialist states or workers ' states.
The primary goal of these states, which also explains their official name, is to guide their respective countries in the प्रक्रम of भवन समाजवादी, ultimately leading to communism.
Communist states may have several legal political parties, but the communist party is usually granted a special or dominant role in government, often by statute or अंतर्गत the संविधान.
Consequently, the institutions of the राज्य और of the communist party become intimately entwined, such as in the development of parallel institutions.
In the 20th century, most कम्युनिस्ट राज्य adopted planned economies.
However, there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World War II allowed limited markets and a degree of worker self-management, while चीन, Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st century, China और वियतनाम have allowed a mixed economy to develop.
The fundamental concepts of communist राज्य प्रायः diverge from the original socio-economic ideologies from which they develop.
As a result, many adherents of ये विचारधाराओं प्रायः oppose the राजनैतिक प्रणालियों commonly associated with these states.
For example, dissenting communists such as trotskyists यहूद प्रायः opposed to the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of the 20th सदी, claiming either that they had nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption.
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of सब समय, साथ a कुल of 22 medals.
Phelps भी holds the all-time रिकॉर्ड लिये ओलम्पिक gold medals ( 18, double the second highest record holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ), and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, Phelps took the record लिये the सबसे first-place finishes at any single Olympic Games.
पाँच of those victories were in individual events, tying the single Games record.
In the 2012 Summer ओलंपिक in लंदन, फेल्प्स won four golds and two silver medals, making him the most successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row.
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter individual medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley.
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition, 57 gold, 11 silver, and three कांस्य spanning the ओलंपिक, the World, and the Pan Pacific Championships.
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking performances have earned him the World Swimmer of the Year Award seven times and अमरीकी तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार नौ times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
His unprecedented Olympic कामयाबी in 2008 अर्जित Phelps Sports Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award.
After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation, which focuses on growing the खेल of तैराकी और promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics, which he has said will be his last.
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and electronics company with its headquarters in बीजिंग, China and Morrisville, North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong, China.
Its उत्पाद शामिल निजी कंप्यूटर, टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, सर्वर, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक भंडार डिवाइस, it प्रबन्धन तन्त्र और smart टेलीविज़न.
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest PC vendor by 2012 unit sales.
it बाज़ार the थिंकपैड लकीर of कोपी computers and the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
Lenovo has operations in more than 60 countries and sells इसके उत्पाद in around 160 countries.
Lenovo was संस्थापित in बीजिंग in 1984 and incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name, Legend.
Lenovo is सूचीबद्ध on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index.
Slug is a common name for an apparently shell-less स्थलीय gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell, has a very reduced shell, or रै तभी a छोटी आतंरिक शेल.
( This is in contrast to the common name `` घोंघा ``, जिससे is लागू to gastropods कि have a coiled shell that is large enough that the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it. )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea, and there is even one genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
the unadorned शब्द `` स्लग '' is however लागू primarily to जमीन slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater हैं प्रायः referred to as `` समुद्र slugs `` और `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( like many in the family Urocyclidae ), are known as semislugs.
The various taxonomic परिवारों of slugs रूप part of several quite different evolutionary lineages which also include snails.
Thus, लिये उदाहरण, the various families of land slugs are not very closely related to one another, despite a superficial similarity in the overall body form.
The shell-less condition has arisen अनेक टाइम्स independently दौरान the विकासवादी past, and thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° टेढ़ी of the internal organs ) during development.
Internally, स्लग anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation, but externally the bodies of land slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical, except for the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the right hand side.
The soft, slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments और जरूर रिट्रीट to नम छुपाना places when the weather is dry.
the subsequent सूचना in this article applies to land slugs.
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or, in writing, `` it was thus in the source सामग्री ''.
Sic may also refer to:
Sic, cluj, a commune in Romania
SIC, the regional कोड for Sicily
sic ( रव कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of Jennifer Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the initial of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting सामग्री, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società इटालियाना cyclecars )
Standard औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial वर्गीकरण a un प्रणाली लिये आर्थिक activities
Shetland आइलैंड्स Council
the Swiss interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union club
Standing निर्वचन कमेटी, a committee dedicated to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the फ़ील्ड of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of विमानन
Sistema Interconectado Central power ग्रिड in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ), a television channel in पुर्तगाल
Sea Isle City, New जर्सी, a तटीय कस्बा in the United States
Segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
शंघाई International Circuit, a motor racing venue in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a hypothetical computer प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC ( Sons Idées couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a two year Junior कॉलेज in harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a Jesuit school in Sydney, Australia
Imperial Standard of नेपोलियन I
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political नेता जो रोज़ to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated wars in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he was Emperor of the फ्रेंच इससे 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the Napoleonic Code, has been a प्रमुख influence on अनेक सिविल विधि jurisdictions worldwide, but he is best remembered for his role in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions, the so-called Napoleonic Wars.
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe and sought to spread the ideals of the French Revolution, while consolidating an इम्पीरियल साम्राज्य जिससे लौटी पहलुओं of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to his success in these wars, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as one of the greatest सैन्य कमांडरों of सब समय, और उसके अभियान are studied at military academies worldwide.
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in corsica in a परिवार of noble Italian ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He trained as an artillery officer in मेनलैंड फ़्रांस.
He rose to prominence under the फ्रेंच पहला गणतंत्र और led successful campaigns against the First and Second Coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a successful invasion of the इतालवी peninsula.
In 1799, he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First Consul ; five years later the French Senate proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first decade of the 19th century, the फ्रेंच साम्राज्य under Napoleon engaged in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power.
After a streak of victories, France secured a dominant position in continental Europe, and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the formation of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends and family members to rule other European countries as French client states.
The Peninsular War and 1812 फ्रेंच invasion of Russia marked turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes.
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in the अभियान और never fully recovered.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded फ़्रांस, मजबूर नेपोलियन to abdicate और exiled him to the island of Elba.
Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and returned to power, but was defeated at the Battle of वाटरलू in June 1815.
Napoleon spent the last six सालो of his life in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer, but there has been some debate about the cause of his मौत, as कुछ विद्वानों have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning.
This is a chronological listing of the संयुक्त States Senators from Pennsylvania.
United States Senators are popularly elected, for a six-year पद, शुरूआत January 3.
चुनावों are held the first Tuesday after November 1.
Before 1914, they were chosen by the Pennsylvania General Assembly, and पहले 1935, their terms began March 4.
The South Africa national rugby union team ( known as the Springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union.
They compete in the annual Rugby Championship, along with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and नई जीलैंड.
They have won this championship on three occasions in sixteen years.
They are currently ranked second in the संसार by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी Board, and were named 2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards.
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition, the Springboks did not compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
the टोली बना इसके संसार कप डेब्यू in 1995, जब the newly लोकतांत्रिक दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी hosted the टूर्नामेंट.
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the final, which is now remembered as एक of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history, and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process.
South Africa regained उनके शीर्षक as champions 12 years later, when they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final.
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to first place in the IRB संसार rankings, a स्थिति they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in green and gold jerseys, and their emblems हैं the springbok और the Protea.
The side has been playing अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी चूंकि 1891, जब a British Isles side toured the nation, playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July.
South Africa was coached by जेक श्वेत, जो led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title, announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( पीटर de villiers ) अनुबंध समाप्त in 2011, following a 11–9 defeat to Australia in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final, who then stated he would not be signing a new deal.
The previous captain was John Smit, who before he रिटायर्ड in 2011 निभाई hooker for most of his career, although he has also been a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to Smit being unavailable लिये the नवम्बर 2010 Tests after surgery, lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour.
The current captain is जां de Villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), was fought July 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
It was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और is प्रायः वर्णित as the war 's turning point.
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. ली 's Army of Northern Virginia, ending Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863, Lee led his army through the Shenandoah Valley to begin his दूसरी आक्रमण of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With his army in high spirits, Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their prosecution of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or even Philadelphia.
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his army in pursuit, but was relieved just three days before the battle and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there, his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union cavalry division under ब्रिगेडियर. Gen. John Buford, and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry.
However, two large Confederate corps assaulted them इससे the उत्तरपश्चिम और उत्तर, collapsing the hastily developed Union lines, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south.
On the second दिन of बैटल, most of both armies had assembled.
The Union line was laid आउट in a रक्षात्मक formation resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union left flank, and fierce fighting raged at Little Round Top, the Wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
On the संघ सही, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill.
All across the battlefield, despite significant losses, the Union defenders held their lines.
On the third दिन of बैटल, जुलाई 3, लड़ resumed on culp 's हिल, and cavalry battles raged to the east and south, but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett 's Charge.
The charge was repulsed by Union rifle and artillery fire, at ग्रेट नुकसान to the confederate army.
Lee led his army on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from both armies यहूद हताहत in the three-day battle.
That November, अध्यक्ष lincoln प्रयुक्त the समर्पण ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery to honor the fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address.
An academic discipline, or field of study, is a शाखा of ज्ञान that is taught and researched at the college or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in part ), and recognized by the academic जर्नल्स in जिससे शोध is published, and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong.
however, वहीँ exists no formal criteria for when educational programs and scholarly journals form an academic discipline.
A huge difference exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world, have a long history, and have a खूब स्थापित नियत of जर्नल्स and conferences, and, on the other hand, suggestions for new fields supported only by few universities and publications.
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches, and the distinguishing लाइनों between ये हैं प्रायः दोनो मनमानी and ambiguous.
PHP is a server-side एनक्रिप्शन language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language.
PHP is now installed on more than 244 million websites and 2.1 million web servers.
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference क्रियान्वयन of पीएचपी is अभी उत्पादित by the पीएचपी Group.
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page, it now stands for PHP : Hypertext Preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor मोड्यूल जिससे generates the resulting वेब पेज : PHP commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data.
It रै भी विकसित to शामिल a command-line interface capability and can be used in standalone graphical applications.
PHP is free software released under the PHP License, जिससे is असंगत साथ the ग्नू सामान्य Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP.
PHP can be deployed on most web servers and also as a standalone shell on almost every ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his initials JFK, was the 35th President of the United States, सेवारत इससे 1961 until his death in 1963.
बाद सैन्य सेवा as कमांडर of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the South Pacific, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice अध्यक्ष और Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the दफ्तर, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- Protestant president, and is the तभी president to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the बर्लिन वॉल, the स्पेस Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of military advisers, खास आपरेशन forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the नीति of the रणनीतिक Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, and segregation of rural South Vietnamese from the उत्तरी और दक्षिणी कम्युनिस्ट insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee घनघोर ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज with the crime, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United States House चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial विभाग of रक्षा tfx सेनानी bomber program led to a Congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's निजी life has come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the general पब्लिक, रिपोर्ट्स of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों.
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by बेन E. किंग और लिखा by King, Jerry Leiber, and Mike Stoller, inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
There have been over 400 recorded versions of the सोंग.
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D. Ehrhart, shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a बवंडर of राजनैतिक बदलें.
A metaphor is a figure of speech that describes a subject by asserting that it is, on some पाइंट of तुलना, the वही as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely सम्बन्धित to other rhetorical figures of speech that achieve their effects via association, comparison or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
In simpler terms, a metaphor compares दो वस्तुएँ or things without using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the सबसे prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is the All the world 's a stage monologue from As You Like It :
All the संसार 's a stage,
And all the men and women merely खिलाड़ी ;
They have उनके exits और उनके entrances ; — William Shakespeare, As You Like It, 2/7
This quote is a metaphor because the संसार is नहीं वस्तुतः a स्टेज.
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage, Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the world and a stage to convey an समझना परिचय the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it.
Mount Fuji, from the Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji, रंग woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt वैन rijn, Self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco Goya, There is No One To Help Them, आपदाओं of युद्ध श्रेणी, aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton, la raison probante ( The Cogent Reason ), woodcut from the series Intimités, 1898
Printmaking is the process of बनाना artworks by printing, normally on paper.
Printmaking सामान्यतः कवर तभी the process of creating prints with an element of originality, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is सक्षम of producing multiples of the same piece, which is called a print.
Each print produced is not माना a `` copy '' but rather is considered an `` original ''.
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process, and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work but rather is often a unique image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
A छपाई may be known as an impression.
Printmaking ( अन्य than monotyping ) is not chosen only for its ability to produce multiple impressions, but rather for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
Prints are created by transferring ink from a matrix or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other सामग्री.
Common types of matrices include : metal plates, usually copper or zinc, or polymer plates for engraving or etching ; stone, aluminum, or polymer for lithography ; ब्लॉक of लकडी लिये woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
screens बना of silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the screenprinting process.
Other types of matrix substrates and सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं are discussed below.
Multiple impressions मुद्रित from the same matrix form an edition.
Since the late 19th century, artists have generally signed individual impressions इससे an संस्करण और often number the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may also be printed in book form, such as illustrated books or artist 's books.
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop गायन group created by music manager, executive, and reality TV star Simon Cowell.
Formed in the United Kingdom, they are also signed to Cowell 's record label, syco म्यूज़िक.
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French pop singer Sébastien izambard, स्पेनी baritone Carlos Marín, American tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, they have sold more than 26 million एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
Su-15, one of the principal Soviet एयर रक्षा interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of सेनानी aircraft designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft, particularly bombers and reconnaissance aircraft, and destroy them, relying usually on great speed and powerful armament.
Being used since the First World War, after the late 1960s, interceptors became less important due to shifting from bombers to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare.
A Vietnamese American ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent.
They make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải Ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest एशियाई अमरीकी समूह.
Mass Vietnamese आव्रजन to the संयुक्त States started after 1975, after the end of the Vietnam War.
Early immigrants were refugee boat लोगों fleeing persecution or poverty.
मजबूर to भागो इससे उनके मातृभूमि और प्रायः thrust into poor urban neighborhoods, these newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time.
More than साठ प्रतिशत of Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California, Texas, Washington, Florida, and Virginia.
Front page of the U.S. Armed Forces newspaper, सितारों और Stripes, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in his Führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) committed suicide with him by ingesting cyanide.
कि दोपहर, in accordance साथ हिटलर 's prior निर्देश, उनके remains यहूद carried up the सीढ़ियाँ through the बंकर 's आपात निकास, doused in पेट्रोल और नियत alight in the reich chancellery गार्डन बाहर the बंकर.
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were recovered and interred in successive स्थितियाँ until 1970 when they were again exhumed, cremated and the ashes scattered.
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting down on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary historians have rejected these accounts as being either Soviet propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having been shot through the mouth, but this has been proven unlikely.
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments जिससे were recovered.
In 2009, DNA tests were performed on a skull Soviet officials had long believed to be हिटलर 's.
The tests revealed that the skull was actually that of a स्त्री कम than 40 years old.
स्थान of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and most lax and permissive in the United States.
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for its largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol regulation, in sharp contrast to the very सख्त दारू कानून of some of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating बीमारी or flesh-eating जीवाणु सिंड्रोम, is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues, easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue.
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a कठोर बीमारी of sudden onset and is usually treated immediately with high doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type I describes a polymicrobial संक्रमण, whereas प्रकार ii describes a monomicrobial infection.
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, aeromonas hydrophila ).
Such infections are अधिक संभावित to occur in people with compromised immune systems.
Historically, समूह a streptococcus made up most cases of Type II infections.
However, since as early as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing frequency, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory दवाएँ और nf, though the evidence of the link was said to be weak because of a small number of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se.
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ), भी known as the Second World War, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945.
It involved the vast majority of the world 's nations —including all of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis.
It was the सबसे फैली युद्ध in history, with more than 100 million people serving in military units from over 30 different countries.
In a state of `` total war ``, the major participants placed their entire economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities at the service of the war effort, erasing the distinction between civilian और सैन्य संसाधन.
Marked by mass deaths of civilians, including the holocaust और the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These deaths make World War II by दूर the deadliest conflict in human history.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate ईस्ट एशिया और थी already at युद्ध साथ the गणतंत्र of चीन in 1937, but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain.
From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, Germany formed the Axis alliance with Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
The संयुक्त किंगडम और the अन्य सदस्यों of the British Commonwealth were the only major Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis, with battles taking place in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest land थिएटर of युद्ध in इतिहास, जिससे tied bas the major part of the Axis ' military forces for the rest of the war.
In December 1941, Japan joined the Axis, attacked the United States and European territories in the Pacific Ocean, and quickly conquered much of the पश्चिमी Pacific.
The अक्ष अग्रिम थी रोका in 1942, after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and, decisively, at Stalingrad.
In 1943, with a series of German defeats in Eastern Europe, the Allied invasion of Italy, and American victories in the प्रशांत, the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts.
In 1944, the Western Allies invaded France, while the Soviet Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies.
During 1944 and 1945 the United राज्य पराजित the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by Soviet and Polish troops and the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945, the United States dropped atomic बम on the जापानी शहरों of हिरोशिमा on 6 August, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an आक्रमण of the जापानी द्वीपसमूह imminent, and the Soviet Union having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria, Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945, ending the war in Asia and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis.
World War II altered the political alignment and सोशल ढांचा of the world.
The United Nations ( UN ) was established to foster international cooperation and prevent future विरोध.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States, the सोवियत संघ, चीन, the संयुक्त Kingdom, and France—became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
the सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य उभरा as प्रतिद्वंद्वी superpowers, सेटिंग the स्टेज लिये the ठंडा युद्ध, जिससे lasted लिये the अगला 46 सालो.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great powers started to decline, while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began.
Most countries whose उद्योग had been damaged moved towards economic recovery.
Political integration, especially in Europe, उभरा as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold War.
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is a लचीली रूप of एंटरप्राइज़ that blends elements of partnership and corporate structures.
Note than an llc is नहीं a corporation, and calling an LLC a corporation is technically incorrect.
An LLC is a विधिक form of company that provides limited liability to its owners in the vast majority of United States jurisdictions.
llcs do नहीं need to be व्यवस्थित लिये लाभ.
Five k-cups
The अंदर of a used K-Cup, with the top foil and the used coffee grounds removed.
This shows the filter inside the k-cup.
K-Cup portion पैक हैं प्रयुक्त साथ keurig or अन्य सिंगल cup brewing systems to brew a cup of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
Each K-Cup is a plastic container with a कॉफी filter inside.
Ground coffee beans are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight साथ a संयोजन plastic and foil lid.
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil ढक्कन और the bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup प्रौद्योगिकी to कॉफी roasters और चाय makers ऐसे as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans, Timothy 's World Coffee, Van Houtte, Caribou Coffee, Celestial Seasonings, Bigelow Tea Company, Twinings, Tully 's, Coffee People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the असली k-cup डिज़ाइन expired in September 2012.
Keurig holds at least one additional, still-active US patent and another patent application, detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in उनके k-cup design.
electa जेब chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland.
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 घंटा recoding सामर्थ्य, स्वचालित day, date, month, and moon phase display
A modern Seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph फलन ( गति 7t92 ).
Citizen Atessa eco-drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled reception ( North America, Europe, China, Japan ).
A chronograph is a specific type of watch that is used as a stopwatch संयुक्त with a display watch.
A basic chronograph रै an स्वतंत्र स्वीप दूसरी हाथ ; it can be प्रारंभ, रोका, और लौटे to शून्य by successive दबाव on the स्टेम.
लुई moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus, but in a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor.
Devices कनेक्ट to the बस appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus, and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the motherboard itself, called a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in ibm pc compatibles, जहाँ it विस्थापित the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently been adopted लिये other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, most motherboards are still made with one or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट, जिससे हैं sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased इससे the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards, sound cards, modems, अतिरिक्त पोर्ट such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with old PCs बगैर AGP or PCI Express slots.
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion ताश हैं अभी commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7, 1957 ) is an American समकालीन ईसाई संगीतकार, जो रै charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts.
उसके biggest कामयाबी in मुख्यधारा म्यूज़िक was in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner, and has अर्जित 40 dove पुरस्कार.
Over the course of his career, he sold more than 13 लाख एल्बम और recorded 29 No. 1 Hit songs, fourteen gold albums, and five platinum albums.
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named one of People magazine 's `` सबसे Beautiful People ''.
An American poster from the World War II -era that was used to inform people about कया वे should do if they suspect sabotage.
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or destruction.
In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious वापसी of दक्षता generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions.
One who engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs कोशिश to conceal their identities because of the consequences of their actions.
For example, whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of तोड़फोड़, it होता नहीं want the व्यक्तिगत identities of the perpetrators known.
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private, independent college with an Evangelical Christian basis that focuses on शिक्षण शास्त्रीय उदार arts and government, located in Purcellville, Virginia, United States.
Patrick Henry is known for its रूढ़िवादी evangelical Christian focus.
As of April 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools, a national faith-related accrediting संगठन पहचाना by the विभाग of शिक्षा and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense Association, and now serves as the headquarters for the संगठन, साथ जिससे it is still closely connected.
The history of television comprises the work of numerous engineers and inventors in several countries over many decades.
The earliest proposal was in 1908, in a paper by A. A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the use of cathode rays.
The first practical demonstrations of television, however, were developed using electromechanical विधि to स्कैन, संचारण, और reproduce an image.
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected, electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic systems in nearly all applications.
L'Idéal Cinéma - ज़ाक tati at aniche opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A cinema in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A ठेठ multiplex ( AMC Promenade 16 in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema, movie house, film house, film theater or picture house ) is a स्थान, प्रायः a building, for viewing films.
Most but not all movie theaters are commercial operations catering to the सामान्य पब्लिक, जो attend by purchasing a ticket.
the फिल्म is प्रक्षिप्त with a movie projector onto a large projection screen at the front of the auditorium.
Most movie theaters are now equipped लिये डिजिटल सिनेमा projection, removing the need to create and transport a physical film print.
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on कैलिफ़ोर्निया State Route 41, near Creston.
A मोटरसाइकिल club is a group of individuals whose primary interest and activities involve motorcycles.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by at least three species of जीवाणु belonging to the genus Borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North America, whereas borrelia afzelii और Borrelia garinii cause most European cases.
The disease is named after the towns of Lyme and Old Lyme, Connecticut, USA, where a number of cases were identified in 1975.
हालांकि एलन steere एहसास कि lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981, when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the सबसे आम tick-borne disease in the Northern Hemisphere.
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may include fever, headache, fatigue, depression, और a characteristic circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ).
Left untreated, later symptoms may involve the joints, heart, and सेंट्रल बेचैन system.
In most cases, the संक्रमण और इसके लक्षण हैं eliminated by antibiotics, especially if the illness is treated early.
विलम्बित or inadequate treatment can lead to more serious symptoms, which can be disabling and difficult to treat.
penises of minke whales on display at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a general term for the अंगों साथ which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, लकिन males do नहीं bear a penis in every animal species, and in those species in which the male does bear a so-called penis, the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous.
For example, the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the penis of a पुरूष कीट or barnacle.
The term penis applies to अनेक reproductive intromittent organs, but not to all ; for example the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and male spiders use their pedipalps.
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis, it has no major function other than intromission, or at least conveying the sperm to the मादा, लकिन in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra, which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires.
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music publishing company that is responsible for talent scouting और overseeing the कलाकारी विकास of recording artists and/or songwriters.
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing company ; every activity involving artists to the point of album रिलीज is generally considered under the purview of, and responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in इम्पीरियल इकाई और u.S. प्रथागत इकाई बराबर to one-eighth of a mile, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 rods, or 10 chains.
The exact value of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries.
Five furlongs हैं लगभग 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ).
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the परिधि of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through Paris ), the circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 lithium button cell battery
Lithium 9 volt, AA, & aaa आकार
लिथियम बैटरी हैं डिस्पोजेबल ( primary ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an anode.
They स्टैंड अलावा इससे अन्य batteries in their high charge density ( long life ) and high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used, lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium बैटरी हैं widely प्रयुक्त in products such as portable consumer electronic devices.
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four स्टुडियो एल्बम, ट्रबल, तक the Sun Turns Black, Gossip in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise.
He थी born in नई Hampshire and was inspired to create music after hearing an album by Stephen Stills.
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's music to that of The Band, Van मॉरिसन, Nick Drake, and Tim Buckley.
He lives in मैसाचुसेट्स with his wife and two children.
जब the Wind Blows is a novel by James Patterson.
It is the precursor to The Lake House and प्रेरित the अधिकतम Ride series.
The novel is currently नियत to be adapted into a movie.
The Pittsburgh Steelers were founded in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has had several logos while wearing virtually the same uniforms over the years, with subtle changes made to give the uniforms an updated look.
The team colors, uniforms, and logo are often क्रमित as होने among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, डस्टिन Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले opening to high school students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
फेसबुक अभी allows कोई उपयोक्ता जो घोषित themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता of the साईट.
Users must register before using the साईट, बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल, add other users as friends, and exchange messages, including automatic notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or college, or other characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, Facebook has over one billion active users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there are 7.5 million children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in Facebook, and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most प्रयुक्त सोशल networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on earth did we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' जन्मदिन, कीड़ा our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique U.S. विज़िटर in may 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions, with the site losing 7 million active उपयोक्ता in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed लिये an आरंभिक public offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly known as The Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs, ), was a German Field Marshal of World War II.
He earned the respect of both his own troops and the दुश्मनों he fought.
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World War I and was awarded the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the इतालवी सामने.
In World War II, he further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of France.
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established him as one of the most able commanders of the war, and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox.
He is regarded as one of the most skilled commanders of desert warfare in the conflict.
He later commanded the German forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in normandy.
His कार्यभार never took him to the Eastern Front.
Rommel is regarded as having been a दयालु और पेशेवर officer.
His Afrika Korps थी never अभियुक्त of युद्ध अपराधों, और सैनिको captured during his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill Jewish सैनिको, नागरिकों and captured commandos were ignored.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate Adolf Hitler.
Since Rommel was a national hero, Hitler desired to eliminate him चुपचाप.
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill, in return for आश्वासनों कि ख़बरों 's family would not be persecuted following his death.
Stained glass representation of the Holy Spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors, later elaborated by five intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics.
They are : अक्ल, समझना, wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ), counsel, knowledge, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
The धरती दिन ध्वज, the latest proposal of John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event, celebrated on April 22, on which events are held worldwide to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
It was first celebrated in 1970, and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, and celebrated in more than 192 देशों प्रत्येक year.
In 1969 at a UNESCO सम्मेलन in San Francisco, the date proposed was March 21, 1970, the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere.
This day of nature 's equipoise was later sanctioned in a Proclamation signed by Secretary सामान्य u thant at the United Nations.
A month later a separate Earth Day was founded by United राज्य Senator Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22, 1970.
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential पदक of स्वतंत्रता Award in recognition of his work.
While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, who थी the original national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week, an entire week of activities focused on पर्यावरणीय मुद्दे.
Iodine is a रासायनिक element with symbol I and atomic number 53.
The नाम is from Greek ioeidēs, meaning violet or purple, due to the color of elemental iodine vapor.
Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition, and industrially in the production of एसिटिक एसिड और निश्चित polymers.
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number, low toxicity, and ease of attachment to organic यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine.
Iodine has only एक stable isotope.
A क्रमांक of आयोडीन radioisotopes are also used in medical applications.
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble iodide आयन, i−, which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
Like the other हैलोजन्स, फ़्री आयोडीन occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic molecule I2, and then only momentarily after being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen.
In the universe and on Earth, आयोडीन 's ऊँची परमाणु number makes it a relatively rare element.
However, its presence in ocean water has given it a भूमिका in जीवविज्ञान.
It is the heaviest अनिवार्य तत्व utilized widely by life in biological functions ( only tungsten, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in many soils, due to initial low abundance as a crust-element, and also leaching of soluble iodide by rainwater, has led to many deficiency problems in जमीन पशु और अंतर्देशीय इंसान populations.
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion people and is the leading preventable cause of बौद्धिक disabilities.
Iodine is required by higher animals, which उपयोग it to synthesize थायराइड hormones, which contain the element.
क्युकी of this function, radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in the thyroid gland along with nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a high fission product yield, concentrates in the thyroid, but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the अधिनियम of attempting to influence decisions made by officials in the government, most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is किया by अनेक अलग प्रकार of लोगों और व्यवस्थित groups, including individuals in the private sector, corporations, fellow legislators or government officials, or advocacy groups ( interest groups ).
lobbyists may be among a विधायक 's constituencies, meaning a voter or bloc of voters within his or her electoral district, or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a business, or not.
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to influence legislation on behalf of a group or individual who hires them.
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their normal job ( for instance, a CEO meeting with a representative about a project important to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ).
Governments often define and regulate organized group lobbying that has become influential.
The ethics and नैतिकता of lobbying are.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting the law ( twisting it away from fairness ) in order to serve their own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended विरूद्ध others ' corruption, or even simply making sure that minority interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade association of health insurance companies, may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of तम्बाकू कंपनियाँ, in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ).
The difficulty in आरेखण उद्देश्य लाइनों between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which lobbyists or their clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence legislation is a power struggle.
as in अन्य फ़ॉर्म of शक्ति संघर्ष, such as war or law enforcement, motives range from to self-defense to fighting for justice, and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of अपना love guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist eric क्लैप्टन, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock, hard rock and psychedelic rock, combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics, Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing और vocals, जोकर ब्रूस 's आवाज़ और prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The group 's third album, पहियों of Fire, was the world 's first platinum-selling double album.
Cream are widely regarded as being the world 's first successful supergroup.
In their करियर, they sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful ``, and modern blues such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew ``, `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` Sunshine of Your प्रेम `` ( us, क्रमांक 5 ), `` White Room `` ( US, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), and `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream made a significant प्रभाव on the लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक of the समय, और, साथ साथ जिमि Hendrix, and Terry Kath of Chicago, popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient musical theme that foreshadowed and influenced the emergence of अंग्रेजों bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
The band 's live performances influenced progressive rock acts such as Rush.
Cream were inducted into the Rock and फेंकें हॉल of Fame in 1993.
They were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's lists of the `` 100 Greatest कलाकारों of सब समय ''.
They were also ranked number 16 on VH1 's `` 100 Greatest कलाकारों of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters, and starring Ricki Lake, Sonny Bono, Debbie Harry, Michael St. Gerard, Shawn Thompson, Colleen Fitzpatrick, Jerry Stiller, and in his last film role, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended audience.
In fact, Hairsprays PG is the mildest rating a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films यहूद rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, मेरीलैंड, the फिल्मी घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' teenager Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation.
Hairspray was only a moderate कामयाबी upon इसके आरंभिक नाट्य release, earning a modest gross of $ 8 million.
However, it managed to आकर्षित a larger दर्शक on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic.
Most critics praised the film, हालांकि some were displeased with the overall campiness.
In 2002, the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the वही नाम, which won eight Tony Awards, including Best Musical in 2003.
A second film version of Hairspray, an adaptation of the स्टेज musical, was also released by New Line Cinema in 2007, which included many changes of scripted items from the original.
The film also ranks # 444 on Empire magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name, structure, and doctrine भीतर christianity.
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर considers itself the one true church and the Apostolic See, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any औपचारिक denominational ढांचा, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping परे the लोकल सभा ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category.
Some groups are large ( e.g. Catholics, Lutherans, Anglicans or Baptists ), जबकि अन्य हैं बस a few छोटी चर्च, and in most cases the relative size is not evident in this list.
Modern आंदोलनों ऐसे as fundamentalist Christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes cross denominational lines, or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups, ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches, for example ).
ऐसे subtleties and complexities are not clearly depicted here.
प्रमुख विभाजन within Christianity.
Note : This is नहीं a पूरा सूची, लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of Christianity.
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 ईसाई denominations, अनेक of जिससे can नहीं be सत्यापित to be significant, only those denominations with Wikipedia articles will be listed in order to ensure that all entries on this list are notable and verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists वहीँ हैं considerable मतभिन्नता परिचय जिससे समूह can be properly called Christian, disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups.
For the purpose of simplicity, this list is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of each denomination.
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations can be found at उनके संबंधित articles.
There is no official recognition in most parts of the world for religious bodies, and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the औकात or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches परिचय whether अन्य चर्च चाहिए be labeled with pejorative terms such as `` cult '', or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability.
Such considerations often vary from place to place, where one religious group may enjoy majority status in one region, but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world.
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any निर्णय परिचय the size, importance, or character of a group or its members.
1804 map of `` Louisiana ``, edged on the वेस्ट by the Rocky Mountains.
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the United States of America in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) प्लस रद्दीकरण of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 cents per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars, less than 42 cents per acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed सब or भाग of 15 present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces.
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, ओक्लाहोमा, कान्सास, और नेब्रास्का ; भाग of मिनेसोटा कि यहूद वेस्ट of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of Montana, Wyoming, and Colorado east of the Continental Divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi River, including the city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762, the year it gave the territory to इसके ally Spain.
Under नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट, फ़्रांस took वापस the territory in 1800 in the आशा of भवन an साम्राज्य in उत्तर अमेरिका.
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain, however, led France to abandon these plans and sell the entire territory to the United States, जो था originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The purchase of the territory of Louisiana took place during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson.
At the समय, the खरीदें faced domestic opposition because it was thought to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory, Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the बंदरगाहों of नई ऑरलियन्स और फ़्री ड्योढ़ी on the मिसिसिपी River.
Ceremony at Place d'armes, New Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United States, 10 March 1804, as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` Cool Jerk '' is a popular song written by Donald Storball and originally performed by The capitols.
Released in 1966, it reached No. 2 on the American R & B चार्ट and No. 7 on the pop chart.
The backing track for this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the Motown house band the दुर्गंध भाइयो.
Per one of the दुर्गंध भाइयो, the song was originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk. ''
This was taken from watching neighborhood pimps, जो होता dance in the clubs, but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
Their version was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title would be banned or not receive much धनात्मक ध्यान, and had the title changed to its current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd Rundgren, Big Trouble, Human Sexual Response, The La de da 's, the Creation, and The Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky feel to the song.
The Go-Go 's covered the सोंग लिये उनके 1982 album Vacation and later re-recorded it for their 1990 album Greatest.
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York, Uncle Frank ( Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower.
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the Cool Whip '' ) is प्रयुक्त in कूल चाबुक commercials.
A recording of `` Cool झटका '' by Ricardo Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown, performed by the Funk Brothers with सीसे vocals by bootsy कॉलिन्स.
The song is heard briefly in the एनिमेटेड feature, Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted.
Despite this कारण, it is listed in some variations of the film 's soundtrack.
A league is a unit of length ( or, rarely, area ).
It was long आम in Europe and Latin America, but it is no longer an official unit in any nation.
The league originally referred to the distance a person could walk in an hour.
चूंकि the मध्य आयु, many values have been specified in several countries.
In the context of nautical distances, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) अलहदा corresponds to कैसा दूर an observer of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level.
यूँ, a जलयान traveling one `` league '' has reached what was previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon.
The lack of a historical and global standard लिये the सटीक माप of a `` league '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a dominion of the British Commonwealth, having seceded from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's 32 counties.
चूंकि 1949 it has existed as the Republic of Ireland.
From its foundation, the Irish फ़्री राज्य थी embroiled in a civil war between nationalists supporting the Treaty and opponents who supported a republic.
The pro-Treaty side, organised as cumann na ngaedheal उभरा victorious from the conflict and won subsequent elections.
They formed the government of the state until 1932, when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil, who पराजित उन्हें in an चुनाव.
The Irish state, despite its violent beginnings, has remained a liberal democracy throughout its existence.
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in विदेशी नीति matters from Britain.
In 1948 Ireland formally बाएँ the अंग्रेजों Commonwealth and adopted the title of `` Republic ''.
In the आर्थिक गोला, the Irish state has had a mixed performance.
On independence, it was one of the wealthier countries in Europe per head of population.
However it also inherited from British rule the problems of बेरोजगारी, emigration, uneven geographical development and lack of a native industrial base.
For much of its history, the state struggled to rectify these problems.
Particular peaks of emigration were recorded during the late 1930s, 1950s and 1980s, जब the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, Fianna Fáil सरकारें attempted to create Irish domestic industries using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies यहूद dropped in पक्ष of फ़्री व्यापार with selected countries and encouraging of foreign investment with low taxes.
This was विस्तारित when Ireland entered the European Economic Community in 1972.
In the 1990s and 2000s, Ireland experienced an आर्थिक बूम ज्ञात as the सेल्टिक Tiger, in which the country 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours.
Immigration also surpassed emigration, bringing the state 's population up to over 4 million.
However, since 2008, Ireland has experienced a severe crisis in the बैंकिंग सेक्टर और साथ sovereign debt.
The resultant आर्थिक slump रै deepened the effect of the world recession on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the Irish constitution included a claim on Northern Ireland as a part of the नेशनल territory.
However, the state also opposed and used its security forces against those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army, who tried to unite Ireland by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s and 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale.
Irish governments meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the conflict known as The Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the सही of the Irish government to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good Friday Agreement, the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to उत्तरी आयरलैंड और बजाय extend the right of Irish citizenship to all the people of the island should they wish to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767February 23, 1848 ) थी the छठे अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as American diplomat, Senator, and congressional प्रतिनिधि.
He was a सदस्य of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, National Republican, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams was the son of former President John एडम्स और Abigail Adams.
As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating many अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties, सबसे notably the Treaty of Ghent, which ended the War of 1812.
As Secretary of State, he negotiated with the संयुक्त किंगडम over अमेरिका 's उत्तरी किनारा with Canada, negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida, and authored the Monroe Doctrine.
Historians agree he was one of the महानतम राजनयिकों and secretaries of state in American history.
As president, he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted education.
Adams enacted a part of his कार्यसूची और सशुल्क बंद much of the national debt.
He was stymied by a Congress controlled by his enemies, and his lack of patronage networks helped राजनेता eager to undercut him.
He lost his 1828 bid for re-election to एंड्रयू Jackson.
in doing so, he became the first president since his father to serve a single term.
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped अमेरिका 's विदेशी नीति in लकीर साथ उसके ardently राष्ट्रवादी commitment to America 's republican values.
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' आजीवन, technological innovations and new means of communication spread messages of religious revival, social reform, and party politics.
Goods, money, and people traveled more rapidly and efficiently than ever before.
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after leaving office, सेवारत लिये the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ दूर greater acclamation than he had achieved as president.
He is, so far, the only president later elected to the United States House of Representatives ( though John Tyler was elected to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि of the confederate राज्य बस पहले उसके मौत in 1862 ).
Animated by his growing revulsion विरूद्ध गुलामी, Adams became a leading opponent of the Slave Power.
He predicted that if a civil war were to break out, the president could abolish गुलामी by using उसके युद्ध शक्तियां.
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue, but said that if the South became independent there would be a series of bloody slave revolts.
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser इससे microsoft.
It was released to the public on कूच 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the release schedule of any particular version of Windows, unlike previous versions.
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a Windows ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, हालांकि कुछ OEMs have installed it with Windows 7 on their PCs, as well as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system आवश्यकताएँ for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Vista Service Pack 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
खिड़कियाँ xp and earlier are not supported.
अंतरजाल Explorer 9 is the last version of Internet Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista.
Both IA-32 and x64 builds are available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 properties, embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via खिड़कियाँ रंग प्रणाली, और रै improved JavaScript performance.
It is the last of the five major web browsers to implement support लिये स्केलेबल वेक्टर ग्राफिक्स ( SVG ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite, hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media Foundation, imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component, and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the HTML5 video और ऑडियो tags and the Web Open Font Format.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company.
It was developed by Maurice Treener, head chemist at Miles, in elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of नाबालिग aches, pains, सूजन, fever, headache, heartburn, sour stomach, indigestion, and hangovers, while neutralizing excess stomach acid.
it थी शुभारम्भ in 1931.
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds और फ्लू, alka-seltzer Plus, was later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, Alka-Mints, was introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
Alka-Seltzer is फिलहाल owned by Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Germany.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications sold over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving tablets that form a carbonated solution in water.
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet dissolving in water
Image showing the six most common speleothems with labels.
Enlarge to दृश्य लेबल्स.
A stalactite (, ; from the Greek stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem ( secondary mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves.
It is a प्रकार of dripstone.
The सम्बन्धित formation on the floor of the cave is known as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree instead of स्पेलिंग आउट the शीर्षक in full, such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many डिग्री have more than one abbreviation.
In the UK, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for डिग्री with full stops ( e.g. `` BSc '' rather than `` B.Sc. ``.
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large और पृथक populations or groups by anatomical, cultural, ethnic, genetic, geographical, historical, linguistic, religious, or social affiliation.
First used to denote national affiliations, the term began to be used to relate to physical traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the पद थी प्रायः प्रयुक्त, in a taxonomic sense, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy सेट of traits, अन्य in the वैज्ञानिक community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic way, i.e. that among humans, race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species, Homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over time, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals based on perceived traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies and theories that grew out of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic.
Although still used in general contexts, it is now often replaced by other words जिससे हैं कम अस्पष्ट और emotionally charged, such as populations, people ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
Lucy Stone ( August 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) was a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist, and a गायन एडवोकेट और आयोजक promoting rights for women.
In 1847, Stone became the first woman इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a college degree.
She spoke out for women 's rights and against slavery at a time when महिलाओं यहूद हतोत्साहित और prevented from public speaking.
Stone was the first अंकित अमरीकी स्त्री to retain उसके own last name after marriage.
Stone 's organizational activities for the cause of women 's rights yielded tangible gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights Convention and she supported and sustained it annually साथ साथ a क्रमांक of अन्य लोकल, राज्य और regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in front of a number of legislative bodies to promote laws giving अधिक अधिकारों to महिलाओं.
She assisted in establishing the स्त्री 's नेशनल वफ़ादार लीग to सहायता pass the तेरहवीं amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after which she helped form the largest group of like-minded women 's rights reformers, the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association, which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote.
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights, प्रकाशन and distributing speeches by herself and others, and convention proceedings.
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal, a weekly periodical that she established and promoted, Stone aired दोनो उसके अपना और differing दृश्य परिचय women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's rights movement '', स्टोन वितरित a वाक जिससे sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the first व्यक्ति by जिसको the दिल of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question. ''
Together, Anthony, Stanton, and Stone have been called the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the बंध issuer to the holders.
It is a debt security, under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and, depending on the terms of the bond, is obliged to pay them interest ( the कूपन ) or to repay the प्रिंसिपल at a बाद date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual, annual, sometimes monthly ).
Very प्रायः the बंध is परक्राम्य, i.e. the ownership of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of the bond is the lender ( creditor ), the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ), और the कूपन is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term investments, or, in the case of government bonds, to finance current expenditure.
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are considered to be money market instruments and not bonds : the main difference is in the लंबाई of the पद of the यंत्र.
Bonds and stocks are both securities, but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an equity stake in the कम्पनी ( i.e. वे हैं स्वामी ), whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e. they are lenders ).
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term, or परिपक्वता, after which the bond is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable bond, such as Consols, which is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond with no maturity.
A scale model of the मीनार of लंदन.
This model can be मिला inside the tower.
स्केल मॉडल of water powered turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe, 1:43 घाट f-100, 1:25 revell monogram 1999 Ford Mustang Cobra, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
मॉडल ships and castle
A scale model is a physical model, a representation or copy of an object that is larger or smaller than the actual size of the ऑब्जेक्ट, जिससे seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object.
Very often the scale model is used as a guide to making the ऑब्जेक्ट in full size.
Scale models are built or एकत्रित लिये अनेक reasons.
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the Zune product परिवार released on सितंबर 15, 2009 by Microsoft.
It was a direct competitor साथ the Apple iPod and iPhone series of mobile devices.
It was initially released in 16 and 32 GB capacities.
a 64 gb version was released on April 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and included Wi-Fi for synchronization, access to the Zune Marketplace और वेब browsing.
The Zune HD utilized the nvidia tegra APX 2600 chip, allowing it to play 720p video through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, content would be scaled down to 480x272 pixels on the player 's OLED touchscreen.
Old Sparky, the इलेक्ट्रिक chair used at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution, usually performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी, is an निष्पादन method originating in the United States in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas Edison during the War of currents, और रै महरूम प्रयुक्त तभी in the United States and, for a period of several decades, in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned person was attached to the कुर्सी, विभिन्न चक्र ( differing in voltage and duration ) of alternating current would be passed through the individual 's body, in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ).
The first jolt of electric current थी designed to कारण तात्कालिक unconsciousness and brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs.
Death was frequently caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the heart.
Although in the United States the electric chair has become a प्रतीक of the मौत दंड, इसके उपयोग is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection, which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution.
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of execution, today it is only maintained as a secondary method that may be chosen over lethal इंजेक्शन at the request of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an optional form of execution in Alabama, Florida, South कैरोलिना और Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal injection as an वैकल्पिक method.
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee, the electric chair has been retired मगर लिये those जिनकी पूंजी अपराधों यहूद वचनबद्ध prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates who do not चुनें electrocution or inmates who committed their crimes after the designated date are killed by lethal injection.
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved लिये संभावित उपयोग in अरकंसास and Oklahoma if other forms of execution are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution.
It is the sole method of execution in Vermont, where देशद्रोह is the only capital crime.
On February 8, 2008, the Nebraska Supreme Court determined that execution by इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी was a `` cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution.
This brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska, the only remaining state to retain electrocution as its sole method of execution for murder.
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly, the राज्य विधानमंडल of the American State of Maryland, and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts.
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State House ( state capitol ) on State Circle in annapolis, जिससे is the state capital.
The State House also houses the Maryland State सीनेट कक्ष और the offices of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland.
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis, in the nearby Casper R. Taylor, Jr. House दफ्तर Building.
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris ) took place during World War II from 19 August 1944 until the surrender of the occupying जर्मनी गैरीसन on 25 August.
The Liberation of Paris प्रारंभ साथ an uprising by the French Resistance against the German garrison.
On 24 August, the फ्रेंच शक्तियां of the आंतरिक ( शक्तियां françaises de l'intérieur, FFI ) received reinforcements from the Free French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton.
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice in June 1940, जब the German Army occupied northern and westernmost France, and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the exile of the Vichy सरकारी to Sigmaringen in Germany.
However, there was still much heavy fighting to be done before France was liberated, including the campaign in southern France during August-September ( in Provence and extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ), साथ the german-held seaports of पश्चिमी फ़्रांस ( ऐसे as at Brest and Dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
The German Army and SS लड़ा doggedly in these areas for the remainder of 1944 and into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a song written by Dave मेसन of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड ट्रैफ़िक इससे their eponymous 1968 album, Traffic.
The song was also a hit single for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, us # 33 ), mongo santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, US # 54 ).
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ), The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ), Lou Rawls, Freddie King, Paul Weller, Lulu, Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ), Rare धरती, the इलेक्ट्रिक अवधारणा ऑर्केस्ट्रा, माँ 's finest ( 1973 ), the ओहियो Players ( 1971 ), Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes.
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad Oil Company was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 फिल्मी duets, सुंग by Huey Lewis.
Both the original and the जो Cocker cover were featured in the movie Flight, starring Denzel Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born कूच 8,1991 ) is an अमरीकी actor, voice actor, singer, songwriter and musician, best known for his starring role as Ned Bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's Declassified School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules, as the lead character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth and final season of the ABC परिवार show Greek.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record based on images
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य सूचना परिचय व्यक्तिगत मरीजों or populations.
It is a record in डिजिटल स्वरूप कि is theoretically capable of being shared across different health care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats जैसे आयु और वज़न, और बिलिंग सूचना.
Loan origination is the process by जिससे a borrower applies लिये a new loan, and a lender processes that application.
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan application up to disbursal of funds ( or घटती the application ).
Loan servicing covers सबकुछ बाद disbursing the funds until the loan is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized version of new account opening for वित्तीय सेवाएं संगठन.
Certain people and organizations specialize in ऋण origination.
Mortgage brokers और अन्य बंधक originator companies serve as a prominent example.
There हैं अनेक अलग types of loans.
For more information on loan types, see the loan and उपभोक्ता lending articles.
Steps involved in originating a loan vary by loan type, various kinds of loan risk, regulator, lender नीति, और अन्य कारकों.
Top left : The Tennessee Valley Authority, part of the नई सौदे, being signed into law in 1933.
Top right : Franklin Delano रूज़वेल्ट, जो थी responsible for initiatives and programs collectively known as the New Deal.
Bottom : A public mural from one of the कलाकारों employed by the New Deal.
The New Deal was a series of economic programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936.
They involved presidential executive orders or laws passed by Congress दौरान the पहला पद of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The कार्यक्रम यहूद in response to the Great Depression, and focused on what historians call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and सुधार of the वित्तीय system to prevent a repeat depression.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ), with its base in liberal विचार, the श्वेत दक्षिण, परंपरागत Democrats, big city machines, and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities.
The Republicans were विभाजित, साथ conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth, and liberals accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential चुनावों into the 1960s, while the opposition Conservative Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used for supporters of the नई सौदे, and `` conservative `` for its opponents.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn from two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, और बाएँ party districts ).
As noted by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat सीनेटरों — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ), साथ the दूसरी one more liberal and more controversial.
the `` पहला नई सौदे '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ विविध समूह, इससे बैंकिंग और railroads to उद्योग और खेती, सब of जिससे मांगे सहायता लिये आर्थिक अस्तित्व.
the संघीय आपात राहत प्रशासन, लिये उदाहरण, provided $ 500 लाख लिये राहत परिचालन by राज्य और शहरों, जबकि the short-lived cwa ( सिविल works प्रशासन ) दिया बस्तियों धन to operate make-work प्रोजेक्ट in 1933-34.
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions, the Works प्रगति प्रशासन ( wpa ) राहत कार्यक्रम ( which made the federal government by far the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States Housing Authority and Farm Security Administration, both in 1937, and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter split between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican gains in कॉंग्रेस in 1938.
Conservative Republicans और डेमोक्रेट in कॉंग्रेस joined in the informal Conservative Coalition.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs such as the WPA and CCC and blocked major liberal proposals.
Roosevelt खुद turned his attention to the war effort, and won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the first version of the Agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) असंवैधानिक, however the aaa थी rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after FDR, Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New Deal largely intact, even expanding it in some areas.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as inspiration for a dramatic expansion of liberal programs, which Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained.
After 1974, however, the call for deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
The New Deal regulation of banking ( glass–steagall अधिनियम ) was suspended in the 1990s.
Many New Deal programs remain क्रियाशील, साथ कुछ स्टिल ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the असली names, सहित the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ).
The largest कार्यक्रम still in existence today are the Social Security System and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
A woman ( ), pl : women ( ) is a मादा इंसान.
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult, with the term girl होने the usual पद लिये a मादा child or adolescent.
However, the term woman is भी sometimes used to identify a female human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women are typically capable of giving birth, though older women who have gone through menopause and some intersex महिलाओं can not.
`` I Do n't want to मिस a बात '' is a song performed by American rock band Aerosmith for the 1998 film Armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 years together ).
The song stayed at number one लिये चार weeks from September 5 to September 26, 1998.
The song also ठहरे at क्रमांक 1 for several weeks in several other countries.
In the UK, the song peaked at number four, becoming Aerosmith 's उच्चतम charting सोंग in the uk, जहाँ it थी the 17th best-selling single of 1998, and has sold over a million copies.
Although not used by the majority of the संसार 's countries, daylight saving time is common in the Western world.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English — is the अभ्यास of advancing घड़ियाँ दौरान the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks are adjusted forward one hour near the start of spring and are adjusted पिछड़ा in autumn.
The modern idea of daylight छायांकन थी पहला proposed in 1895 by George Vernon Hudson and it was first implemented during the First World War.
Many countries have used it at various times since तब.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s, and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe since then.
The practice has been दोनो praised and criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, sports, and other activities that exploit sunlight बाद working घंटों, but can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of विद्युत ), आधुनिक हीटिंग और कूलिंग उपयोग पैटर्न differ greatly, and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST clock shifts present अन्य चुनौतियां.
They complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt बैठक, सफर, बिलिंग, record keeping, medical devices, heavy equipment, and sleep patterns.
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically, but this can be limited and error-prone, particularly when DST dates are changed.
floorplan of the Château de Montargis
Montargis is a कम्यून in the Loiret department in north-central France on the Loing river.
The कस्बा is स्तिथ परिचय दक्षिण of Paris and east of Orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the second largest city in the loiret, बाद orléans.
It is near a विशाल वन, and contains light industry and farming, including saffron.
Due to its numerous canals and bridges, montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais. ''
Though quite modern, it retains a medieval charm in its downtown area.
In computer storage, a logical unit number, or LUN, is a number used to identify a logical unit, which is a device addressed by the scsi प्रोटोकॉल or protocols which encapsulate SCSI, such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be used with any device which supports read/write operations, such as a tape drive, but is सबसे प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
Though not technically correct, the term `` LUN '' is प्रायः भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata Markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of चिह्नित or बस चिह्नित, is the दूसरी book of the New Testament.
इस canonical account of the life of Jesus of Nazareth is one of the three synoptic gospels.
It was thought to be an epitome, which accounts for its place as the second gospel in the Bible.
However, most contemporary विद्वानों अभी लिहाज़ it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was used as a सोर्स लिये the अन्य synoptic gospels इन्जील of Matthew and Gospel of Luke is widely held by many, although not all, New Testament scholars.
the इन्जील of चिह्नित narrates the मंत्रालय of यीशु इससे उसके बपतिस्मा by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to उसके मौत और क़यामत.
It focuses particularly on the last week of his life ( अध्याय 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift कथा portrays यीशु as a वीर man of action, an exorcist, healer and miracle worker.
an महत्वपूर्ण theme of Mark is the Messianic Secret.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, tries unsuccessfully to keep his messianic identity secret, and conceals his message with parables.
meanwhile, the शिष्यों असफल to समझे दोनो the implication of the miracles of Jesus and the meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest, death and resurrection.
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb and that the following account of उसके क़यामत दिखावे is a later addition.
According to tradition and some early church writers, the author is Mark the Evangelist, the साथी of the apostle Peter.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on several underlying sources, varying in form and in theology, which tells विरूद्ध the परंपरा कि the इन्जील थी based on Peter 's preaching.
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as खूब as ज्ञात अपोस्टोलिक preachings, और pre-existing written records that do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the stories in the gospel may have been transmitted orally पहले होने written down.
Various elements within the gospel suggest that the author wrote in Syria or फिलिस्तीन लिये a non-jewish Christian community.
The Lord of the Rings is an एपिक ऊँची काल्पनिक अनोखा written by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit, but eventually developed into a much larger work.
It थी written in stages between 1937 and 1949, much of it during World War II.
It is the दूसरी best-selling novel ever written, with over 150 million copies sold.
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an पहले आयु निर्मित the One Ring to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth.
इससे शांत beginnings in the शायर, a होब्बिट जमीन नहीं नापसंद the अंग्रेज़ी countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins, Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee, Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took, but also the hobbits ' chief allies and travelling companions : Aragorn, a Human Ranger ; Boromir, a man from Gondor ; Gimli, a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set, with the other being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the Rings as three volumes over the कोर्स of a साल इससे 29 जुलाई 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955, thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy.
The three volumes were entitled The Fellowship of the रिंग, the दो मीनारें, and The Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, two per volume, with several appendices of background सामग्री शामिल at the समाप्त of the third volume.
The Lord of the Rings रै चूंकि been reprinted numerous times and translated into many languages.
Tolkien 's work has been the विषय of extensive analysis of its themes and origins.
Although a major work in itself, the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien था worked on since 1917, in a process he described as mythopoeia.
Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the बजती, include philology, mythology, religion and the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization, as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I.
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` tolkienesque '' have महरूम recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the बजती रै led to numerous सन्दर्भ in लोकप्रिय culture, the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien 's works, and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has inspired, and continues to inspire, कलाकृति, music, films and television, video games, and subsequent literature.
Award-winning adaptations of The रब of the बजती have been made for radio, theatre, and film.
The following is an एपीसोड list for the Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh.
The series debuted on January 11, 2004.
A TV film Merry Christmas, ड्रेक & जोश was made apart from the regular series on December 5, 2008.
There are a total of 60 episodes were produced spanning चार seasons.
Drake Bell, Josh Peck, and मिरांडा Cosgrove were the only actors to appear in all 60 episodes.
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's headquarters और अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता क्लारा, California in August 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of quarterback Alex Smith, who is in a ब्लैक जर्सी ; the defense in white.
In the National Football League, training camp refers to the समय पहले the ऋतु commences.
During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside location, usually a university, to conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर लिये at तनिक the first few weeks.
This is similar to बेसबॉल 's spring training.
Training camp is used in several अलग तरीके.
New players and coaches use it to acclimate themselves to नई teammates and systems.
For younger players, it serves as a period of evaluation ; for दिग्गजों, it is समय to round back into form.
Training camp is विभाजित into several different components.
The first is scrimmages.
These हैं pseudo-games where teams run nearly full games ' worth of plays.
sometimes, दो practice sessions are held on the same day.
This concept is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of प्रशिक्षण शिविर शामिल drills, बैठक साथ कोच and other players at one 's position, weight training, and pre-season games.
The latter half of training camp leads सीधे into the exhibition season.
With NFL training camps starting in late-july, the biggest concern has been dehydration.
In 2001, मिनेसोटा Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a medical condition based from dehydration and heatstroke.
The death of Stringer prompted the एनएफएल to change their training policies.
At each practice, every team must have the टोली डॉक्टर और प्रशिक्षकों on the field ; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.
With NFL training camps beginning in late July, severe weather can affect अभ्यास और प्रदर्शनी games.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning near Cleveland भूरा Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often समर्थ to विज़िट उनके पसंदीदा team 's training camp to catch an early look at the players ; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket, making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons.
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience.
In computing, a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to store, retrieve and update a नियत of files.
The पद could refer to the अमूर्त आंकड़ा structures प्रयुक्त to define फाइलें, or to the वास्तविक तन्त्र or फर्मवेयर components कि implement the अमूर्त विचार.
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ; others provide file access via a network protocol ( e.g. NFS, smb, or 9p clients ).
Some file systems are `` virtual '', in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store.
The file system manages access to both the content of files and the metadata about those फाइलें.
It is जिम्मेदार लिये arranging storage space ; reliability, efficiency, and tuning with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the only person to have served in both of these offices.
पहले बनने अध्यक्ष, Taft, a Republican, was selected to serve on the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United States and in 1891 a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth सर्किट.
In 1900, President William McKinley appointed Taft governor-general of the फिलीपीन.
in 1904, अध्यक्ष थियोडोर Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of War in an effort to groom Taft, then his close political ally, into his handpicked presidential successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State, while declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve on the Supreme Court.
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt, Taft won an easy victory in his 1908 bid लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी.
In his only term, Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, civil service reform, strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission, improving the performance of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the economic development of nations in Latin America and Asia through `` डालर कूटनीति ``, और दिखाया decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the राजनैतिक ramifications of उसके निर्णय, often alienated his own key constituencies, and was overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912.
in सर्वेक्षण of presidential scholars, Taft is usually ranked near the middle of lists of all American Presidents.
बाद leaving दफ्तर, Taft spent his time in academia, arbitration, and the search for world peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace.
in 1921, बाद the पहला संसार युद्ध, अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त taft मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त States.
Taft served in this क्षमता जबतक shortly before his death in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus, in which the Hebrew-born Moses, an adopted Egyptian prince, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves.
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as his adoptive brother, Pharaoh Rameses II, Anne Baxter as Nefretiri, Edward G. Robinson as Dathan, Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora, डेबरा पेजेट as lilia, और जॉन Derek as Joshua.
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti I, नीना foch as bithiah, मार्था Scott as Yoshebel, Judith Anderson as Memnet, Vincent Price as Baka, and John Carradine as Aaron.
The film was released by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें in VistaVision on October 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, जिससे demille narrated, was the last film that he directed.
he थी नियत to सीधा the 1958 remake of his 1938 film The Buccaneer, but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord Baden Powell, the founder of the Scout गति, साथ दाउद niven ; इस project was never realized.
The Ten Commandments is a आंशिक remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film.
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956 version worked on the original.
It has since been remade as a television miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the most financially successful films ever made, grossing over $ 65 लाख at the u.S. बक्सा office.
adjusting लिये महंगाई, इस makes it the छठे highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically, साथ an समायोजित कुल of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box office website `` The Numbers '' सूचियाँ the घरेलू gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top Ten `` —the best ten films in ten American film genres—after polling over 1,500 लोगों इससे the रचनात्मक community.
The Ten Commandments थी सूचीबद्ध as the tenth best film in the epic genre.
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture, और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Visual Effects.
Charlton Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture कर्ता in the नाटक श्रेणी.
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award for Best Actor for his role as Rameses, along with his other roles in the किंग और I and Anastasia.
Louisville (, or ) is a major city and the largest city in the U.S. state of Kentucky and the county सीट of Jefferson County.
Since 2003, the city 's borders have been with those of the county because of a city-county merger.
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( louisville 's संतुलन कुल, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan area ( MSA ) had a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding counties, eight in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी Indiana ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville Combined Statistical Area, having a population of 1,451,564, includes the MSA, Hardin काउंटी और larue काउंटी in केंटकी, and Scott County, Indiana.
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century, louisville आज is best known as the location of the Kentucky Derby, the first of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
A typical प्रायोगिक setup for an aldol reaction.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the तापमान of जिससे is being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ).
A cooling bath, in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry ) practice, is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
ये कम temperatures हैं प्रयुक्त to collect liquids after distillation, to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator, or to perform a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen, water, or भी एयर ) — लकिन सबसे commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as liquid water, ethylene glycol, acetone, etc. ), which transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A familiar उदाहरण of इस is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice cream.
the phase-change of बर्फ into द्रव जल requires उर्जा, 'pulling ' ऊष्मा इससे the प्रणाली.
adding नमक lowers the अस्थायी at जिससे इस happens, meaning more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it must 'pull ' more heat from its पर्यावरण to become liquid. )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive food intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health.
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are the सबसे आम विशिष्ट forms in the United Kingdom.
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating disorder और खाने विकार नहीं otherwise specified.
bulimia नर्वोज़ा is a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging.
Purging can include self-induce उल्टी, over-exercising, and the usage of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the point of self-starvation and excessive weight loss.
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million being affected in the U.K. ), eating disorders affect males as well.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of लोगों साथ खाने विकार are males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an अनुमानित 1 million U.K. males being affected ).
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both men and women, there is evidence to सुझाएँ कि it is महिलाओं in the Western world who are at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of all Americans personally जान किसी with an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी खोजा, and the skill to observe the functions of the brain as well.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल in eating behaviour, which is a key component in eating disorders.
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely understood, but there is evidence कि it may be linked to other medical conditions and situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting diverse populations.
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a greater chance of getting an खाने disorder than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested कि महिलाओं साथ PTSD, especially due to sexually related trauma, are more likely to develop anorexia nervosa.
One study showed that फोस्टर लड़कियों हैं अधिक likely to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think that peer दबाव और idealized body-types seen in the media are also a significant factor.
Some research show that for certain people there are genetic reasons why they may be prone to विकासशील an खाने disorder.
Recent studies have मिला प्रमाण a सहसंबंध between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In addition, anxiety disorders and personality disorders हैं आम आवृत्ति with clients of eating disorders.
While proper treatment can be highly प्रभावी लिये अनेक कष्ट इससे विशिष्ट प्रकार of खाने विकार, the consequences of eating disorders can be severe, including death ( whether from direct medical effects of disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the United States existed from the early years of the colonial period ; it was firmly established by the time the United States sought स्वतंत्रता from Great Britain in 1776.
However, by 1804, सब राज्य उत्तर of the मेसन और डिक्सन लकीर था either abolished गुलामी outright or passed कानून लिये the क्रमिक abolition of गुलामी.
In 1787 Congress prohibited slavery in the उत्तरपश्चिम Territory.
But गुलामी gained new life in the South with the cotton industry after 1800, and expanded into the Southwest.
The nation was polarized into स्लेव और फ़्री states along the Mason-Dixon Line, which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808, but the domestic trade, with sales to the Deep South, expanded dramatically, and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade.
Before the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending slavery and its expansion into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as sinful, and numerous anti-slavery forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free men.
After failed compromises and अब्राहम lincoln 's चुनाव, in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव राज्य broke away to form the Confederate States of America, leading to the American Civil War.
The federal government in 1862 made abolition of गुलामी a युद्ध goal.
In January 1863 अध्यक्ष lincoln freed slaves in the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective December 1865, abolished slavery throughout the entire United States, including the Border states and the Indian territories.
From the 16th to the 19th centuries, an estimated 12 लाख Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See Slavery in the Americas.
The great majority went to the sugar plantations of the वेस्ट इंडीज or Brazil, where mortality was high.
About 645,000 were brought to what is now the United राज्य.
By the 1860 United States Census, the slave population in the American South था grown to four million.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave states, nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in four ), amounting to 8 % of सब अमरीकी families.
जबकि कुछ स्लेव worked as हाउस बन्दों and urban artisans, the great majority worked on plantations or large farms, cultivating lucrative cash crops, such as rice, tobacco, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South, where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
In small operations, they worked साथ उनके owners.
In large plantations they were directed by श्वेत paid overseers.
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human being, and of his/her descendants ), a racial element was fundamental : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by other southern colonies, enacted विधि that children of slave mothers were born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which was difficult and illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, which was regulated by राज्य, और became increasingly मुश्किल or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also व्यवस्थित work by a system of bonded labor known as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted for several years for both poor Europeans and Africans alike, to pay off the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements because of poor economies in their home countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to आयात more Africans as slaves.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it combined a किस्में of विधान और added नई प्रावधानों enforcing श्वेत सर्वोच्चता in the law.
Schematic cross section of part of leaf, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the अन्य ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is wood, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, but it also transports some nutrients through the plant.
This clock representation shows कुछ of the major units of geological time and definitive events of Earth history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on Earth ; its upper boundary is अभी regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ).
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
The two million year Quaternary period, the time of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at इस scale.
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other earth scientists to describe the timing और संबंध between कार्यक्रम कि have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates and nomenclature set forth by the International आयोग on स्तरिकी मानक रंग कोड of the International Commission on Stratigraphy.
Evidence from radiometric dating indicates कि the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old.
The geology or deep time of धरती 's पास्ट रै been organized into various units according to events which took place in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the composition of strata which correspond to them, indicating प्रमुख geological or paleontological events, such as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the Cretaceous period and the Paleogene period is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, जिससे चिह्नित the निधन of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life.
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing परिपथ बना by Texas Instruments.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more user friendly version of the ti-85, और as a replacement for the TI-81.
It was the direct predecessor of the ti-83.
It shares with the TI-85 a 6 mhz zilog Z80 microprocessor.
Like the TI-81, the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display, and the core feature set of the TI-81 with many new features.
the cast of characters of The King of Fighters XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game series, उत्पादित by snk playmore, शामिल a चौड़ी cast of characters, some of which are taken from other SNK games.
The story takes place in a fictional universe in which an annual series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held.
The first game in the series introduces the initial main character of the series, Kyo Kusanagi, a young Japanese सेनानी जो is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi गोत्र 's दुश्मनों, उसके rival Iori Yagami, and the god Orochi and its human followers, among others.
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc, revolving around K ', a young man who seeks to destroy the रहस्यमय nests संगठन because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his past memories, so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control.
In The King of Fighters 2003, a new character named Ash Crimson enters the tournament, to चोरी the शक्तियां of the clans जो sealed the Orochi in the past for an unknown reason.
A new group of antagonists, known as Those From the Past, also appears in the series ; वे want to obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to their unknown master.
The plot and the characters came इससे the Yamata no Orochi legend.
There are also several characters in the games that are parodies or homages to several popular anime, manga, और films.
Merchandise based on the characters has also been released, सहित कार्रवाई figures and keychains.
The characters have garnered praise from several video game publications for the quality of their designs and movesets.
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in some of the characters, but added that the roster is greatly diverse.
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style reality television series that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet केबल चैनल.
The program follows Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, as he and the crew aboard their विभिन्न बरतन harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica.
On January 5, 2013, एनिमल ग्रह renewed the series for a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a Neotropical species of eagle.
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle which is sometimes known as the नई गिनी harpy त्रिभुज or Papuan Harpy Eagle.
It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the americas, and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the upper ( emergent ) canopy layer.
Destruction of its natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its पूर्व दायरा, और it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
biological वर्गीकरण, or scientific classification in biology, is a method of scientific taxonomy used to group and categorize organisms into groups such as genus or species.
These समूह हैं known as taxa ( singular : taxon ).
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus, who grouped species according to shared शारीरिक characteristics.
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the darwinian principle of आम descent.
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th century, phylogenetic taxonomy in which organisms are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in some areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, जिससे उपयोग डीएनए sequences as data, has also driven many recent revisions and is likely to continue doing so.
Biological classification belongs to the विज्ञान of biological systematics.
Lennon 's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician, singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder सदस्य of the बीटल्स, एक of the सबसे commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music.
With Paul McCartney, he formed one of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; उसके पहला बैंड, the quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade, Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced the critically acclaimed albums John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine, and iconic songs ऐसे as `` दे सलाम a मौका `` और `` imagine ``.
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969, he changed his name to जॉन Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote time to raising his infant son Sean, but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy.
He was murdered three weeks after its रिलीज.
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in उसके music, writing, drawings, on film and in interviews.
Controversial through his political and peace activism, he moved to New York City in 1971, where his criticism of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड निक्सन 's प्रशासन to deport him, while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units, and as writer, co-writer or performer, he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons voted him eighth, and in 2008, Rolling Stone क्रमित उसे the fifth-greatest singer of all time.
He was posthumously inducted into the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 1987 और into the चट्टान और फेंकें Hall of Fame in 1994.
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington, New York, not far from `` sunnyside ``, the घर of वॉशिंगटन Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author वॉशिंगटन इरविंग प्रकाशित in 1819, as well as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist.
Written जबकि इरविंग was living in Birmingham, England, it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains, Irving later admitted, `` When I wrote the story, I had never been on the Catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, many significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम नियत.
This page only includes the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार won by various artists.
This does not include the various खास पुरस्कार कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a कॉमिक fictional अक्षर created and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens.
He is best known for his two television series और फिल्मी श्रेणी during the 1980s.
the childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a stage act that quickly led to an HBO special in 1981.
As the stage performance gained further popularity, Reubens took the character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985, toning down the वयस्क innuendo लिये the अपील of children.
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse, an एमी पुरस्कार जीतना children 's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
Another film, Big शीर्ष pee-wee, was released in 1988.
Due to negative media attention following a scandal in 1991, Reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s, and then gradually resurrected it during the following दशक.
It was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to write a new pee-wee फिल्मी, pee-wee 's playhouse : the Movie.
In June 2007, Reubens appeared as pee-wee Herman for the first time since 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' Choice Awards.
That '70s Show is an American television काल sitcom कि centers on the जीवनदान of a समूह of teenage मित्रों जीना in the fictional suburban town of Point Place, Wisconsin, from May 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox टेलीविज़न network, first airing on August 23, 1998, running for eight consecutive seasons, and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18, 2006.
The main teenage cast members यहूद topher अनुग्रह, Mila Kunis, Ashton Kutcher, Danny Masterson, Laura Prepon, and Wilmer Valderrama.
The main adult cast members were Debra Jo Rupp, Kurtwood Smith, Don Stark and, during the first three seasons, Tanya Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United राज्य.
It is named after the Kansas River which flows through it, which in turn थी नामित बाद the कंस देशी American tribe, which inhabited the area.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people of the south wind, '' although this was probably not the term 's original meaning.
Residents of कान्सास are called `` Kansans. ''
For thousands of years what is now Kansas was home to numerous और विविध Native American tribes.
Tribes in the Eastern part of the state generally lived in villages along the river valleys.
Tribes in the पश्चिमी भाग of the राज्य were semi- nomadic and hunted large herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by यूरोपीय Americans in the 1830s, but the pace of settlement accelerated in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue.
When officially खोली to उपनिवेश by the u.S. सरकारी in 1854, abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and pro-slavery settlers from neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
Thus, the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its early days as these forces collided, and was ज्ञात as bleeding Kansas.
The abolitionists eventually prevailed और on जनवरी 29, 1861, Kansas entered the Union as a free state.
After the Civil War, the population of Kansas grew rapidly, when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, Kansas is one of the सबसे उत्पादक agricultural states, producing high yields of wheat, sorghum and sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th most extensive और the 33rd सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Psychology is an academic and applied discipline that involves the scientific study of mental functions and behaviors.
Psychology has the immediate goal of समझना individuals and groups by both establishing general principles and researching specific cases, and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
In this field, a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be classified as a social, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and सोशल बर्ताव, जबकि भी exploring the physiological और neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors.
Psychologists explore concepts such as बोध, संज्ञान, attention, emotion, phenomenology, motivation, brain functioning, personality, behavior, and interpersonal relationships.
psychologists of diverse stripes also consider the unconscious mind.
Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in opposition, to employing empirical and deductive methods, some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक interpretation and other inductive techniques.
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '', with psychological findings linking to शोध और perspectives from the social sciences, natural sciences, medicine, and the humanities, such as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the मूल्यांकन और उपचार of mental health problems, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity.
The majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of therapeutic भूमिका, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior, and typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग or सिखा in अन्य academic settings ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings, or in other areas such as human development and aging, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13, 1743 ( April 2, 1743 O.S. ) – July 4, 1826 ) was an American Founding Father, the principal author of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता ( 1776 ) और the तीसरा अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he served in the Continental Congress, representing Virginia and then served as a wartime राज्यपाल of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781 ).
Just बाद the युद्ध ended, from mid-1784 Jefferson served as a diplomat, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the United राज्य मंत्री to France.
Jefferson थी the first United States Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President George Washington.
With his close friend James Madison he organized the democratic-republican पार्टी, और subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet.
Elected Vice President in 1796, when he came in second to John Adams of the Federalists, Jefferson opposed Adams and साथ मैडिसन secretly लिखा the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts.
Elected president in what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800, he oversaw the purchase of the विशाल louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ), and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west.
His second term was beset साथ परेशानियों at घर, such as the failed treason trial of his former Vice President Aaron Burr.
With escalating trouble with Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening शिपिंग at समुद्र, he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade.
In 1803, President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana Territory west of the Mississippi River, in order to open lands for eventual American settlers.
A leader in the Enlightenment, Jefferson was a polymath who spoke five languages fluently और थी deeply interested in science, invention, architecture, religion and philosophy, interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency.
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near Charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, जिससे he named Monticello.
While not a notable orator, Jefferson was a skilled writer and corresponded with many influential people in America and Europe throughout his वयस्क life.
Though Jefferson owned many slaves, he opposed the institution all his life and consequently treated and took care of them बहुत खूब और अपेक्षित उन्हें to कार्य no more than free farmers.
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether Jefferson was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
Historians are also in असहमति with how much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson signed into law a bill that banned the importation of slaves into the United States.
After Martha Jefferson, his wife of eleven years, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower for the rest of his life ; उनके विवाह उत्पादित six children, of whom two survived to adulthood.
Though जेफरसन रै महरूम criticized by many modern day scholars over the issue of slavery, he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by Steven Van Zandt, produced by Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South अफ़्रीकी policy of apartheid.
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City, a resort which was located in Bantustan of Bophuthatswana, one of a number of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population.
This page is a list of वर्ण in the Police Academy film and television series.
Bill Russell won 11 championships with the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स.
This is a list of NBA players साथ सबसे championships won as a player.
The National बास्केट संघ ( NBA ) is a major professional basketball league in North America.
it थी founded in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America ( BAA ).
The league adopted its current name at the प्रारंभ of the when it merged with the National Basketball League ( NBL ).
The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA and the निष्कर्ष of the sport 's postseason.
The winning team of the series receives the लैरी o'brien Championship Trophy.
Players from the जीतना टोली प्रायः receive championship rings from the team honoring their contribution.
However, in some rare occasion, the teams opted to gave other commemorative वस्तुएं, ऐसे as कलाई घड़ियाँ, instead of rings.
The number of championships won by NBA superstars is often प्रयुक्त as a मापन of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the सबसे एनबीए championships जीती साथ 11 titles during his 13-year playing career.
He won his first championship with the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स in उसके rookie year.
Afterwards, he went on to win 10 championships in the next 12 सालो, सहित आठ consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966.
He won the last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, sam जोन्स, जीती 10 championships from 1959 to 1969, the second most in NBA history.
Four Celtics players, Tom Heinsohn, K. C. Jones, Satch Sanders and जॉन havlicek, won eight championships each.
Two other Celtics, Jim Loscutoff and Frank Ramsey, won सात championships each.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Michael Jordan और scottie pippen, won six championships each.
Jordan and Pippen are members of the Chicago Bulls team who won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s.
रॉबर्ट horry और जॉन salley are the only players to have won the championships with three different teams.
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the सैन अंतोनियो स्पर्स, जबकि salley जीती चार championships with the Detroit Pistons, the Bulls and the Lakers.
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only players to win two championships साथ two different teams in consecutive seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, while Kerr won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results to the सच्चा मान, परिशुद्धता to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a measurement प्रणाली is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true ) value.
The precision of a measurement system, also called reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to जिससे दोहराया measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results.
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, वे हैं deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method.
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise, precise लकिन नहीं सटीक, neither, or both.
For उदाहरण, if an प्रयोग contains a systematic error, then increasing the sample size generally increases precision but does not improve accuracy.
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate string of results from the flawed प्रयोग.
Eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy but does not बदलें precision.
A मापन प्रणाली is designated मान्य if it is both accurate and precise.
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a factor or factors unrelated to the independent variable ) and error ( random variability ).
The terminology is also लागू to अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that is, values obtained by a computational procedure from observed data.
in जोड to सटीकता and precision, measurements may also have a measurement resolution, which is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement.
In the case of full reproducibility, such as when rounding a number to a representable फ्लोटिंग पाइंट क्रमांक, the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 मानक it अर्थात् the क्रमांक of bits in the significand, so it is used as a measure for the relative accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented.
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the act of sexual मैथुन.
It is an English word कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The origin of the word is obscure.
It is usually माना to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( ऐसे as कमीने और fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There are many common phrases which make use of the word, as well as a number of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Animated, color-coded map showing the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention and model, some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example, Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ), जबकि उत्तर and South America are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ).
A continent is one of अनेक बहुत large landmasses on Earth.
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they हैं ( इससे largest in size to smallest ) : Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.
In भूविज्ञान, महाद्वीपों हैं described by means of tectonic plates.
Plate tectonics is the process and study of the movement, collision and division of महाद्वीपों, earlier known as continental drift.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film about a समूह of भूमिगत motorcycle drag racers.
It stars Laurence Fishburne, Djimon Hounsou, Derek Luke, Meagan Good, and Larenz Tate and is लिखा और निर्देशित by Reggie Rock Bythewood.
It also features Lisa Bonet, Orlando Jones, Kid Rock and Vanessa घंटी calloway.
For the स्टील पैंथर song, see Feel the Steel.
Community property is a marital प्रॉपर्टी शासन कि originated in सिविल विधि jurisdictions and is now also found in some common law jurisdictions.
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system, which itself was inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths.
जबकि अंतर्गत स्पेनी rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community system of acquests and gains, which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
Map of the United States with community प्रॉपर्टी states highlighted in red.
In addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a पृथक प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits couples to opt into a community property arrangement.
In a community property क्षेत्राधिकार, सबसे प्रॉपर्टी acquired दौरान the विवाह ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the community, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment or death.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific evidence that होता पाइंट to a contrary conclusion for a particular piece of property.
Division of community property may take place by मद, by splitting सब items or by value.
In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute, meaning that the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be वर्गीकृत as जातियाँ or पृथक प्रॉपर्टी.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a तलाक court may decree an `` equitable distribution `` of community property, which may result in an unequal division of such.
In non-community प्रॉपर्टी states property may be divided by equitable distribution.
Generally बोलना, the प्रॉपर्टी कि प्रत्येक संगी brings into the विवाह or receives by gift, bequest or devise during marriage is called separate property ( i.e., not community property ).
See प्रभाग of property.
Division of जातियाँ debts may not be the same as division of community property.
For example, in California, community प्रॉपर्टी is जरूरी to be विभाजित `` equally '' while community debt is required to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage is the separate property of that spouse, unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property.
The rules for this vary from jurisdiction to क्षेत्राधिकार.
The Duke and duchess of कैम्ब्रिज waving to the crowd at The Mall shortly after the wedding.
The wedding of Prince William, Duke of कैम्ब्रिज, और कैथरीन Middleton took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
The groom, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, is the eldest son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and is second in the line of succession to the British Throne and the thrones of fifteen other Commonwealth realms.
The bride, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of three children of Michael and Carole Middleton of Bucklebury, Berkshire.
The Dean of Westminster, John Hall, presided at the service ; the archbishop of canterbury, rowan विलियम्स, conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres, the Bishop of London, preached the sermon ; and a reading was given by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's best man was his brother, Prince Harry, while the bride 's sister, Pippa, was maid of honour.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's families, as well as many foreign royals, diplomats, and the couple 's chosen personal guests.
After the ceremony, the couple made the traditional रूप on the बालकनी of Buckingham Palace.
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to the सिंहासन, the wedding was not a full state occasion and many details were left to the couple to decide, such as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
Prince विलियम and Kate Middleton met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 October 2010 was घोषित on 16 November 2010.
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much media attention, being compared in many ways with the 1981 विवाह of William 's parents.
The अवसर थी a पब्लिक holiday in the United Kingdom and featured many ceremonial aspects, including use of the state carriages and roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry.
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events across Canada, over 5,000 street parties were held throughout the संयुक्त Kingdom, and one million people lined the route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of millions more around the संसार, including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel.
In the United Kingdom, टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 million viewers, with a total of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born नवम्बर 9, 1980 ) is an American television personality, television host, fashion model, and actress.
minnillo थी also named Miss Teen USA in 1998.
She has been a New York -based correspondent लिये entertainment tonight and hosted Total Request Live on MTV.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which has two opposable thumbs on each `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably similar to इंसान फिंगरप्रिंट ) हैं प्रायः described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating the environment, used for both gross motor skills ( such as grasping a large ऑब्जेक्ट ) और ठीक मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे as picking up a small pebble ).
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the body, are the richest source of tactile feedback, and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands.
Like other paired organs ( eyes, feet, legs ), each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere, so that handedness, or the पसन्दीदा हाथ चुनाव for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil, reflects individual brain functioning.
Some विकासवादी anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example, in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand.
The human hand has 27 bones, not including the sesamoid bones which क्रमांक varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, intermediate and distal ) of the fingers.
The metacarpals are the bones that connects the उंगलियाँ और the कलाई.
प्रत्येक इंसान hand has 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones.
too कूल थी a पेशेवर कुश्ती टैग टोली और पूर्व गुट सबसे notably क्रियाशील in संसार कुश्ती federation/entertainment between 1998 और 2001 और लिये a छोटी समय in 2004.
Basic डिजिटल alarm clock without a radio.
The mark in the top-left of the display indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 radio alarm clock ( Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital प्रदर्शक.
A digital clock is a type of clock that प्रदर्शक the समय डिजिटली, i.e. in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों, as opposed to an analog clock, where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.
Digital clocks are often associated with electronic drives, but the `` digital '' वर्णन refers only to the display, not to the drive mechanism.
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, but `` clockwork '' mechanisms साथ डिजिटल displays are rare. )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time Level '' ) on the television tower rheinturm düsseldorf, Germany.
Family Guy creator Seth macfarlane भी provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an अमरीकी animated sitcom that features five main voice actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include पैट्रिक warburton, Adam West, John G. Brennan, Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide आवाज़ें लिये अनेक characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the show, draw प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ और पॉप culture.
Family Guy वर्ण have महरूम निभाई by more than one actor, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, हालांकि no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here show the एवोल्यूशन of the खेल 's कलाकृति and designs in the United States from 1935–2005.
The history of the board game Monopoly can be traced back to the early 20th century.
The earliest known design was by the American, Elizabeth Magie, patented in 1904 but existing as जल्दी as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an आर्थिक principle, namely the Georgist concept of a single land value tax.
A series of board games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s कि शामिल the खरीदे और selling of land and the development of that land.
By 1934, a board game had been created much like the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers and its related companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several लोगों, ज़्यादातर in the midwestern United States and near the East Coast, contributed to the game 's design and evolution.
By the 1970s, the idea that the game had been निर्मित solely by चार्ल्स darrow था become लोकप्रिय लोकगीत ; it थी मुद्रित in the game 's instructions for many years, in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly, and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007.
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली game was created in the 1800s, and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game, and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers.
Also in the 1970s, Professor Ralph Anspach, who था खुद प्रकाशित a फलक खेल intended to illustrate the सिद्धान्त of both monopolies and trust busting, fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
Through the research of anspach और अन्य, much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady, author of the 1974 book The Monopoly Book : Strategy and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the actual history of the खेल on बैरी farber 's नई यॉर्क नगर बात show in 1975.
Because of the lengthy court प्रक्रम, सहित appeals, the legal status of Parker Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of पार्कर भाइयो, as do इसके specific design elements.
At the conclusion of the court case, the game 's logo and graphic design तत्व became part of a larger Monopoly brand, licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety of items through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's जल्दी इतिहास in the 1970s और 1980s, and several books and journal articles on the subject, Hasbro ( Parker Brothers ' current parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012.
nor किया हास्ब्रो acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in materials published or sponsored by them, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, first held in the जल्दी 1970s, continue to the present, with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a नई generation of spin-off board games and card games appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.
In 1989, the first of many वीडियो खेल और computer game editions was published.
Since 1994, many official variants of the game, based on locations other than Atlantic City, New Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting, excepting Canada ), have महरूम प्रकाशित by हास्ब्रो or इसके licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S. Edition of the खेल to मैच the uk संस्करण, although the U.S. standard edition maintains the Atlantic City property names.
Hasbro also modified the official लोगो to दे the `` mr. एकाधिकार '' character a 3-D computer-generated look, which has since been adopted by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves and Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games, in versions produced directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ).
In baseball, a sacrifice fly is a batted ball that satisfies four criteria:
There हैं fewer than two outs when the ball is hit.
The ball is hit to the outfield ( fair or बेईमानी ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the batter would have been out if not for an error or if the outfielder बूंदें the बॉल और another runner is put out ).
a धावक जो is already on base scores on the play.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a run, जबकि sacrificing his own ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. state located in the midwestern United States.
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern हाफ of the मिनेसोटा territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '', the state 's name आता इससे a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
Those waters, साथ with forests, parks, and wilderness areas, offer residents and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th सबसे extensive और the 21st most populous of the U.S. states.
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( known as the `` Twin Cities '' ), the center of transportation, business, industry, education, government and home to an internationally known arts community.
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast, अभी साफ, farmed और settled ; and the less populated North Woods, used for mining, forestry, and recreation.
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political orientations, and has a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout.
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest राज्य, and has a highly literate population.
the विशाल बहुमत of residents are of Scandinavian and German descent.
The state is known as a center of Scandinavian अमरीकी संस्कृति.
Ethnic विविधता has increased in recent decades.
Substantial influxes of एशियाई, अफ़्रीकी, और Latin American immigrants have joined the descendants of European settlers and the original Native American inhabitants.
Grants are non-repayable निधि by one party ( grant makers ), often a government department, corporation, foundation or trust, to a, often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity, educational institution, business or an individual.
In order to receive a grant, some form of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required.
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and require some level of अनुपालन and reporting.
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder, either on the आवेदक 's own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, such as victims of natural disasters or individuals who seek to खोलें a छोटी business.
Sometimes grant makers आवश्यकता ग्रान्ट जरुरतमंदों to have कुछ form of tax-exempt status, be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government.
For example, tiered funding for a freeway are बहुत विशाल अनुदान negotiated at government policy level.
however छोटी अनुदान may be provided by a government agency ( e.g. municipal government ).
Project-related funding involving governments, business, communities, and individuals is often arranged by application either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 60Co with a half-life of 5.2714 years, 57Co with a half-life of 271.79 days, 56co साथ a half-life of 77.27 दिनों, और 58co साथ a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 18 hours and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than 1 second.
This element also has 11 meta states, all of which have half-lives कम than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of cobalt दायरा in परमाणु weight from 47Co to 75Co.
The primary decay विधि लिये isotopes साथ परमाणु द्रव्यमान unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope, 59Co, is electron capture and the primary mode of decay for those of greater than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay.
The primary decay products before 59Co are iron isotopes and the प्राथमिक products after are nickel isotopes.
Standard परमाणु द्रव्यमान : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who स्थानांतरित My Cheese ?
an अद्भुत Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, published in 1998, is a motivational book by Spencer Johnson written in the style of a parable or business fable.
It describes change in one 's work and life, and four typical reactions to said change by two mice and two `` littlepeople '', दौरान उनके हंट for cheese.
A New York Times business bestseller since रिलीज, जो स्थानांतरित My Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost पाँच सालो and spent over 200 weeks on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list.
It रै बेची अधिक than 26 लाख copies worldwide in 37 languages and remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – September 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union दौरान भाग of the Cold War.
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964, and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or Premier, from 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union, for backing the progress of the early Soviet space program, and for अनेक relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy.
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964, replacing him with Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei kosygin as प्रीमियर.
khrushchev थी born in the रूसी village of Kalinovka in 1894, close to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine.
he थी employed as a metalworker in his youth, and during the Russian Civil War was a political commissar.
With the सहायता of lazar Kaganovich, he worked his way up the Soviet hierarchy.
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges, and स्वीकृत thousands of arrests.
In 1939, Stalin sent him to govern Ukraine, और he continued the purges there.
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World War II ), Khrushchev was again a commissar, सेवारत as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
khrushchev थी present at the bloody defense of Stalingrad, a fact he took great pride in throughout his life.
After the युद्ध, he लौटे to युक्त पहले being recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the शक्ति संघर्ष triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953, Khrushchev, after several years, emerged victorious.
On February 25, 1956, at the 20th पार्टी कॉंग्रेस, he delivered the `` Secret Speech, '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union.
His domestic policies, aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary नागरिकों, were often ineffective, especially in the area of agriculture.
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for नेशनल रक्षा, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years of the Cold War, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, particularly by his emerging rivals, जो चुपचाप रोज़ in strength and deposed him in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet power struggles, but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs were smuggled to the West and published in part in 1970.
khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease.
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract.
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the स्नायु of treitz, जिससे connects the चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds are considered चिकित्सा emergencies, and require admission to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management.
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy, upper GI hemorrhage is now usually treated without surgery.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( रेड, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded population figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
the world population is the total number of living humans on Earth.
As of आज, it is estimated to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United राष्ट्र Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The highest दरों of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and था declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, जबकि मौतों number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the स्थिरता of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Philips Lumileds Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a अभी a fully owned division of Philips Lighting.
knuckle mnemonic for the number of days in each month of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
A mnemonic (, with a silent `` m '' ), or mnemonic यंत्र, is any learning technique that aids information retention.
Mnemonics aim to translate सूचना into a रूप कि the इंसान brain can retain better than its original form.
Even the process of applying this conversion might already aid the transfer of information to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists और in auditory रूप, ऐसे as छोटी कविताएं, acronyms, or यादगार वाक्यांश, but mnemonics can also be for other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, physical, sexual, humorous, or otherwise 'relatable ' information, rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information.
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of memory '' and is related to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ), the नाम of the देवी of मेमोरी in यूनानी mythology.
Both of these words are निकला इससे μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` remembrance, memory ''.
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often considered in the context of what is today known as the Art of मेमोरी.
Ancient Greeks and Romans विशिष्ट between two types of memory : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory.
The former is inborn, and is the one that everyone uses automatically and बगैर सोच.
The artificial memory in contrast has to be प्रशिक्षित और विकसित through the learning and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques.
mnemonic प्रणालियों हैं खास तकनीकों or रणनीति consciously प्रयुक्त to improve मेमोरी, it helps employ सूचना already भंडारित in long-term मेमोरी to मेक memorization an easier task.
President Bush signing the No Child Left Behind Act at Hamilton H.S. in हैमिल्टन, Ohio.
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States Act of Congress that is a reauthorization of the elementary और द्वितीयक शिक्षा अधिनियम, जिससे शामिल Title I, the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students.
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the आधार कि सेटिंग ऊँची मानकों and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The Act requires states to develop आकलन in मौलिक skills.
States must give these assessments to all students at चुनें grade levels in order to receive federal school funding.
The Act does not assert a नेशनल achievement standard ; standards are set by each individual state.
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual testing, annual academic progress, report cards, teacher qualifications, and funding परिवर्तन.
The bill passed in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस with bipartisan support.
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, चलित by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a pickup, is a light motor vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built, integrated bed, as well as for coupé utility vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, लकिन भी प्रायः on a खास dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms समान to पिकअप, such as ute in Australia and New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय, जहाँ vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck, refined head and elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, build and breed from the modern घोड़ा, और यहूद, on औसत, smaller.
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts, being essential for war, कृषि, और हस्तांतरण.
Consequently, specific types of horse developed, many of जिससे have no आधुनिक equivalent.
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any analysis of the medieval horse, researchers also need to consider documentary ( दोनो लिखा और सचित्र ) and archaeological evidence.
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by नस्ल, but rather by use.
This led them to be described, for example, as `` chargers `` ( war horses ), `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ), कार्ट घोड़े or packhorses.
Reference is also given to their place of origin, such as `` Spanish horses, '' but whether this referred to एक नस्ल or अनेक is अनजान.
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages, where several words can be used for one thing ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by one word ).
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within one document ), and where one epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment, प्रायः introduced इससे अन्य cultures, allowed for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
In particular, improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the stirrup, horseshoe and horse collar were significant अग्रिम in मध्यकालीन समाज.
Consequently, the assumptions and theories developed by historians are not definitive, and debate still rages on many मुद्दे, ऐसे as the प्रजनन or आकार of the घोड़ा, and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject.
The Music Man is a musical with book, music, and lyrics by Meredith Willson, based on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey.
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill, who poses as a boys ' band organizer and leader and sells band instruments and uniforms to naive townsfolk पहले skipping कस्बा with the cash.
In River City, Iowa, prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him, but when Hill helps her younger bhai overcome उसके भय of social interactions due to his lisp, Marian begins to fall in love with Harold.
Harold, in turn गिरना लिये Marian, risks being caught to win her.
In 1957, the show became a hit on Broadway, winning five Tony Awards, including Best Musical, और कार्यशील लिये 1,375 प्रदर्शन.
The cast album won the first ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये `` बेहतरीन Original Cast Album '' and was number one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks.
The दिखाएँ 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 film adaptation and a 2003 television remake.
It frequently is उत्पादित by both professional and amateur theater companies.
Surveyor 's wheel
A surveyor 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a device for measuring distance.
Largest non-polar deserts
Sand टीले in the rub ' al Khali ( `` Empty quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
makhtesh Ramon, Negev desert, Israel
A desert is a landscape or region of जमीन कि is बहुत शुष्क क्युकी of low rainfall amounts ( precipitation ), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas.
Deserts can also be described as क्षेत्रों जहाँ more water is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert plants must have special adaptations to survive with इस छोटी जल.
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of rain ( precipitation ) each year.
Semideserts or steppes are regions which प्राप्त between and.
In the Köppen climate classification system, deserts are classed as BWh ( hot मरुस्थल ) or bwk ( शीतोष्ण मरुस्थल ).
In the Thornthwaite climate classification system, deserts would be classified as arid megathermal climates.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It थी predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
अनेक alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via उनके colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in कूच 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of कामयाब offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble साथ क्रांतिकारियों, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic संसाधन to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several छोटी states.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
`` Girls बस want to have मजा '' is a 1979 song originally written by Robert Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper.
It was the first major single released by Lauper as a solo artist and the lead-off सिंगल इससे उसके डेब्यू album She 's So Unusual.
Lauper’s version gained recognition as a feminist anthem and promoted by an award-winning video.
It has been covered on either an album or in live कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 other artists.
the सिंगल थी lauper 's भेदन hit, reaching # 2 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 और बनने a विश्वव्यापी hit throughout लेट 1983 और जल्दी 1984.
It remains one of Lauper 's signature songs and was a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग दौरान the era of its release, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop गीतों ' : 1-50 '', `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top Music Videos '' '' and the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' lists ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, respectively.
The song received a Grammy Award नामांकन लिये रिकार्ड of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.
View of defibrillator electrode position and placement.
defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
defibrillators can be बाह्य, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक with little, or in some cases no training at all.
The Cato Institute is an American libertarian think tank headquartered in Washington, D.C.
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard, Ed Crane and Charles Koch, chairman of the board and chief कार्यपालिका officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries, Inc..
In July 1976, the name was बदला to the Cato Institute.
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index, Cato is the 6th most influential US based think tank, ranking 3rd in आर्थिक Policy and 2nd in Social Policy.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the understanding of public policies based on the principles of limited government, free markets, individual स्वतंत्रता, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate applicable policy proposals that create free, खोलें, और सिविल समाजों in the संयुक्त States and throughout the world. ''
Cato scholars were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे, सहित the Iraq War, civil liberties, education, agriculture, energy policy, and excessive government spending.
On other issues, they supported Bush administration initiatives, most notably health care, Social Security, global warming, tax policy, and immigration.
During the 2008 U.S. अध्यक्षीय election, Cato scholars criticized both major-party candidates, John McCain and Barack Obama.
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration, such as fiscal stimulus, healthcare सुधार, विदेशी नीति, और the युद्ध on दवाएँ, जबकि supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy.
Dracula is an 1897 गोथिक horror novel by Irish author Bram Stoker.
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire गिनती Dracula, the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to England, and the battle between Dracula and a small group of men and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula has been assigned to many literary genres सहित पिशाच साहित्य, हॉरर fiction, the gothic novel and invasion literature.
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in Victorian culture, sexual conventions, immigration, colonialism, and post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire, he defined its modern form, and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical, फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe, and is from the series of children 's novels and movies.
It is an extremely rough but बहुत लोकप्रिय semi-contact sport, played by wizards and witches.
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks, using four गेंदें and six elevated ring-shaped goals, three on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the स्थिति कि संघ football holds as a globally popular sport.
The sport is monumental throughout the wizarding world.
Harry plays an important position for his house team at Hogwarts : he is the seeker और becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
Regional and international competitions are mentioned throughout the series.
In Goblet of Fire, Quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament, but Harry and the weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ), to capture a flying key in Philosopher 's Stone, and on two key occasions in Deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's Diadem, and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air.
Harry Potter रै स्वामित्व दो broomsticks, the Nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt, both of which are destroyed by the series ' end.
The game has been अपनाया in the रियल संसार in the form of Muggle Quidditch.
the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses : the lower house known as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate.
Congress meets in the Capitol in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
Both representatives and senators are chosen through direct चुनाव.
Congress has a total of 535 voting सदस्यों : 435 members in the House of Representatives and 100 members in the Senate.
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year शर्तें representing the people of a district.
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by population using the United States Census results, each state in the union having at least one representative in the House of Representatives.
Regardless of population, each of the 50 states has दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term.
The terms are staggered so every two years लगभग one-third of the Senate is up for election.
Each staggered group of one-third of the सीनेटरों are called 'classes '.
No state of the United States has two senators from the same क्लास.
Most incumbents seek re-election, and their historical likelihood of जीतना subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
In August 2012, a Gallup poll reported that congress’s स्वीकृति rating amongst Americans was at 10 %, matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by Joey + Rory 's Rory Lee Feek, Wynn Varble, and Don Poythress, and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin.
It was released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debut single and is included on his self-titled डेब्यू album.
In April 2010, the song reached Number One on the country music चार्ट, बनाना कोर्बिन the पहला पुरूष solo artist in seven years to send a debut single to Number One.
It has been certified Gold by the riaa.
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld devices and services designed and marketed by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The first BlackBerry device, an ईमेल पेजर, थी released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices, the Z10 and Q10, were announced on January 30, 2013.
The user interface varies by model ; most feature a physical QWERTY कुंजीपटल, जबकि नए पीढियां have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
A BlackBerry can shoot video, take photos, play music, and perform online functions such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also send and receive push email and instant messages जबकि maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device message encryption, and are designed to function as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry डिवाइस support a large variety of instant messaging features, with the most popular being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service.
The BlackBerry PlayBook is a tablet computer offered by the company.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone थी shipped in जून क्वार्टर of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in September quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts लिये 3 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री विश्वव्यापी in 2011, making its manufacturer the sixth most popular device maker ( 25 % of mobile device sales are smartphones ).
The consumer BlackBerry अंतरजाल सेवा is उपलब्धियाँ in 91 countries worldwide on over 500 mobile service operators using various mobile technologies.
As of September 2012, there were eighty million सदस्य विश्वव्यापी to BlackBerry.
In 2011 the caribbean और लैटिन अमेरिका था the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones worldwide, with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
BlackBerry, iPhone, Android, और खिड़कियाँ फोन हैं माना the four major smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States, which alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a सन्दर्भ to the addictiveness of क्रैक कोका.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's नई संसार College Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year. ''
An example of a demand curve shifting.
The shift from D1 To D2 means an बढ़ाएँ in demand with consequences for the other variables
In economics, the माँग वक्र is the आलेख depicting the relationship between the price of a certain commodity and the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price.
It is a graphic representation of a माँग schedule.
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the demand curve of every individual consumer : the individual demands at each price are added together.
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium price ( the price at which sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as buyers together are willing to buy, also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the राशि of कि शुभ or सेवा that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market.
in a monopolistic market, the demand curve facing the monopolist is simply the market demand curve.
historia
by nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
इतिहास ( इससे यूनानी - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that relates to past events as well as the discovery, collection, organization, and presentation of information about these events.
The term includes cosmic, geologic, and organic history, but is often generically implied to mean human history.
विद्वानों जो लिखें about history are called historians.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence of past events, and objectively determine the patterns of cause and effect that determine them.
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its उपयोगिता by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular culture, but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends, because वे do नहीं support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history.
Events occurring prior to written record are माना prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek historian is considered within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '', and, along with his contemporary Thucydides, helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history.
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused Thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern ऐतिहासिक लिखने.
In the पूर्वी परंपरा, a राज्य वृत्तान्त the Spring and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled from as early as 722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE texts survived.
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of history which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, and includes the study of specific regions and the study of certain topical or thematical तत्व of ऐतिहासिक investigation.
Often history is taught as part of primary and द्वितीयक शिक्षा, और the अकादमिक पढ़ाई of history is a major discipline in University studies.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born मैल्कम छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध black Americans.
Detractors accused him of उपदेश जातिवाद, black supremacy, and violence.
He has been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, and at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother was लगाई in a दिमागी hospital, and he was placed in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for breaking and entering.
In थाना, मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952, he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके नेताओ.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the public face of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the United States, where he founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of afro-american एकता.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam, he was assassinated by तीन members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and श्वेत अमेरिकी —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it, `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim कि i 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil अधिकारों नेताओ, he जारी to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th United राज्य सचिव of the Treasury.
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs, and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute, which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a cleaner environment around the संसार, साथ an आरंभिक फ़ोकस on the संयुक्त राज्य and China.
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware, which is presented to the अनुप्रयोग परत of the प्रणाली.
Virtual machines may be based on विशेषताएँ of a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर or emulate the computer architecture and functions of a real world computer.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all अन्य समूह of जीवों.
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica, and have become स्थापित in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, spiders do not have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all their ganglia हैं fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages कि have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, आकार and the amount of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian काल परिचय, but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from, and are बहुत similar to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern मकड़ियों, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, first appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, लकिन सब other known species are predators, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the शिकार to avoid डिटेक्शन, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male मकड़ियों पहचानो themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females.
males of सबसे प्रजाति जीवित a few matings, सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके छोटी जीवन spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
महिलाओं of अनेक प्रजाति care for their young, for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of species are social, building communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative शिकार and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, scientists are now researching the use of spider venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials, and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and पौधे to देखिए if ये can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional character and one of the two female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s दिखाएँ, appearing in all eight seasons.
Portrayed by Laura prepon, डोना is the love interest to Eric Forman.
US county household median आय 2009.
मध्य us household income, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United States सरकारी और निजी institutions.
Each household is measured by the income of every resident over the आयु of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, child support payments received, regular rental receipts, as well as any personal कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
u.S. मध्य household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households जीना on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले government benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the उपयोग of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
A registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory एजेंट, in संयुक्त राज्य business law, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons.
The registered agent 's address may also be where the state will send the paperwork for the वार्षिक नवीकरण of the कारोबार एंटिटी 's चार्टर.
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company, or ( more प्रायः ) a तीसरा पार्टी, ऐसे as the organization 's lawyer or a service company.
Failure to properly maintain a पंजीकृत एजेंट can affect a company negatively.
Office for आपात Management.
Office of War सूचना युद्ध poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life, स्वतंत्रता, and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings are endowed by उनके निर्माता लिये उनके सुरक्षा of जिससे वे institute governments.
Fencing, is typically divided into ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी, Classical fencing and historical fencing,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into तीन weapon categories : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the same three weapons, but approaches fencing as a martial art.
Competitive Fencing is one of five sports which has been featured at every one of the modern Olympic Games, the other four being एथलेटिक्स, साइकिलिंग, तैराकी, और जिमनास्टिक्स.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed मांसपेशी of the femur `` ), भी पुकारा बस the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh.
It is the great extensor muscle of the knee, forming a large fleshy mass which covers the सामने and sides of the femur.
The proper Latin plural form of the क्रियाशील quadriceps would be quadricipites.
In modern अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग, quadriceps is used in both singular and plural.
The singular form quadricep, produced by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर on 15 अप्रैल 1912 बाद colliding साथ an हिमशैल during her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New York City, US.
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest peacetime मेरीटाइम disasters in modern history.
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage.
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the White Star Line, and she was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews, जो perished साथ the ship, as her naval architect.
On her maiden voyage, she carried 2,224 passengers and crew.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her passengers included some of the wealthiest people in the world, as well as hundreds of emigrants from Great ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America.
The ship was designed to be the last शब्द in comfort and luxury, with an on-board gymnasium, swimming pool, libraries, high-class restaurants and opulent cabins.
She also had a powerful बेतार टेलीग्राफ provided for the convenience of passengers as well as for operational use.
Though she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight द्वार, वो lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly more than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage, and one-third her total passenger और क्रू क्षमता.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in आयरलैंड पहले heading westwards towards New York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the crossing and about 375 miles ( 600 km ) दक्षिण of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड, she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her स्टारबोर्ड पक्ष और opened five of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water.
Meanwhile, passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats, many of which were launched only partly loaded.
A disproportionate number of men were left सवार क्युकी of a `` महिलाओं और children first `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, she broke अलावा और foundered, with well over one thousand people still aboard.
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered, the cunard लाइनर rms carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking, where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors.
The disaster was greeted with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge loss of जीवन और the नियामक and operational failures that had led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain और the संयुक्त राज्य led to major improvements in maritime safety.
One of their most important legacies was the स्थापना in 1914 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ( SOLAS ), which still governs maritime safety today.
Additionally, several new wireless regulations were passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to learn from the many missteps in wireless communications -- -which could have saved many more passengers.
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and were left destitute ; many families, particularly those of crew members from Southampton, lost their primary bread-winners.
They were helped by an outpouring of public sympathy and charitable दान.
Some of the male survivors were accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the White Star Line 's chairman, J. Bruce ismay, faced सोशल ostracism लिये the बाकी of his life.
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the seabed, split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of.
चूंकि इसके डिस्कवरी in 1985, हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम बरामद और put on प्रदर्शक at संग्रहालय around the संसार.
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history, her memory kept जिंदा by numerous books, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials.
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human body, including the foot, thigh और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ; however, the precise परिभाषा in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
Legs are used for standing, walking, jumping, running, kicking, and similar क्रियाएँ, and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This article is about the demographic features of the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों, सहित जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व, नस्ल, शिक्षा स्तर, स्वास्थ्य of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों is अनुमानित to be 73.7 million with a growth rate of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
The population is relatively young with 26.6 % गिरना in the 0-14 age bracket.
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in Turkey the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750iL
Buick roadmaster
A full-size car is a marketing term used in North America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the United States, the EPA uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor, singer, and dancer, known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in दोनो the स्टेज और फिल्मी adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the Academy Award, Tony Award and Golden Globe Award.
He also originated the role of George M. cohan in the musical जार्ज m !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical दुष्ट.
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything Goes as Moonface Martin, and Chicago as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( O.S. March 5 ) – June 28, 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman और political theorist, the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for being instrumental in the drafting of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the संयुक्त राज्य Bill of Rights.
He served as a राजनेता much of his adult life.
After the constitution had been drafted, मैडिसन became one of the leaders in the movement to ratify it.
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay produced the federalist papers ( 1788 ).
परिचालित तभी in नई यॉर्क at the समय, वे होता बाद be माना among the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण polemics in support of the संविधान.
He was also a delegate to the Virginia संवैधानिक ratifying convention, and was instrumental to the successful ratification effort in Virginia.
Like most of his contemporaries, Madison बदला उसके राजनैतिक views during his life.
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution, he favored a दमदार national government, though later he grew to favor stronger state governments, before settling between the two extremes late in his life.
In 1789, Madison became a leader in the नई हाउस of Representatives, drafting many basic laws.
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the Constitution, and thus is ज्ञात as the `` पिता of the Bill of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely साथ अध्यक्ष George Washington to organize the new federal government.
Breaking साथ हैमिल्टन and what became the Federalist Party in 1791, Madison and Thomas Jefferson organized what they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), मैडिसन पर्यवेक्षित the Louisiana Purchase, which doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the presidency, he presided over renewed prosperity for several years.
As president ( 1809–17 ), after the failure of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and अधिकारों ; in जोड, he चाही to समाप्त the influence of the British among their Indian allies, whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare, as the United States had neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result, he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military, as well as the national bank, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society, he was a slaveholder who inherited his plantation known as montpelier, और स्वामित्व सैंकड़ों of स्लेव दौरान उसके आजीवन to cultivate tobacco and other crops.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated population of स्लेव to be गिने for representation.
`` रोमन 's बदला '' is a song performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday.
it थी लिखा by minaj and rapper Eminem, who is also featured in the song, and was produced by Swizz Beatz.
It was released exclusively on October 30, 2010 through the US iTunes Store, as a promotional रिलीज preceding the album 's release.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj, where many people felt the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame.
The song references minaj 's alter-ego, Roman Zolanski, and Eminem 's alter-ego, Slim Shady.
The song garnered बहुत धनात्मक reviews from critics, most of which praised the song as a stand-out track on the album.
An official remix featuring Minaj 's mentor, Lil Wayne, was released to the US iTunes Store on जनवरी 19, 2011.
The instrumental was used in the song 'Firing Squad ' by Horseshoe g.a.n.g.
Hydraulic fluid होने poured.
Hydraulic fluids, also called हाइड्रोलिक liquids, are the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic machinery.
आम हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं आधारित on खनिज आयल or जल.
Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes, hydraulic brakes, power steering प्रणालियों, ट्रांसमिशन, कचरा ट्रक, aircraft flight control systems, lifts, and industrial machinery.
Hydraulic systems like the ones उल्लेखित ऊपर will work most efficiently if the hydraulic fluid used has no compressibility
Mahindra ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra Tractors, the farm equipment division of Mahindra & Mahindra, builds and स्त्रोत tractors कि हैं बेची worldwide across six continents.
महिंद्रा is also among the top three tractor manufacturers in the world.
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India, China and America and a growing आधार in Australia.
The company builds more tractors in India than कोई अन्य निर्माता, and has the capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, M & M formed a joint venture with International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate for the Indian market.
Armed with engineering, tooling and manufacturing know-how gained इससे इस संबंध, m & M developed its first tractor, the B-275.
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest tractor companies in the world, and is number one in sales in India - the largest ट्रैक्टर मार्केट in the संसार.
To expand into the growing tractor मार्केट in चीन, Mahindra acquired majority stake in Jiangling.
To raise जागरूकता परिचय महिंद्रा in the us, महिंद्रा यूएसए घोषित इसके नई प्रायोजन in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट, जिससे is participating साथ a # 23 महिंद्रा tractors शेवरलेट.
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson, Jr. महिंद्रा यूएसए, inc. घोषित a 17-race primary and 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series.
With this sponsorship, Mahindra was the first भारतीय कम्पनी to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports team which भागा the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series.
The POWER6 is a microprocessor developed by IBM कि implemented the Power ISA v.2.03.
When it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the शक्ति5+ as ibm 's flagship Power microprocessor.
It is part of the eCLipz project, said to have a goal of converging IBM 's server hardware where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The American middle class is a social क्लास in the United States.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use, contemporary social scientists have put आगे अनेक, अधिक or less congruent, theories on the American middle class.
depending on क्लास model used, the middle class may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the first major studies of the middle class in America was White Collar : The American Middle Classes, प्रकाशित in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists such as Dennis गिल्बर्ट of Hamilton College commonly divide the middle class into two sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional middle class consisting of highly educated, salaried पेशेवर और managers.
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower middle class consisting mostly of semi-professionals, skilled craftsmen and lower-level management.
Middle-class व्यक्तियों commonly have a comfortable standard of living, significant economic security, considerable work autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves.
Members of the middle class belong to diverse groups जिससे overlap with each other.
Overall, middle-class persons, especially upper-middle-class individuals, हैं characterized by conceptualizing, creating and consulting.
यूँ, कॉलेज शिक्षा is एक of the main indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, middle class values tend to emphasize स्वतंत्रता, adherence to intrinsic standards, valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity.
नीतियां अधिक क्रियाशील than other demographics, college educated middle class professionals are split between the two major parties.
Income varies considerably from near the नेशनल मध्य to खूब in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income figures, however, do not always reflect क्लास औकात और standard of living, as they are largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household size.
It is therefore possible for a large, dual-earner, lower middle क्लास household to out-earn a small, one-earner, upper middle class household.
The middle classes are very influential, as वे encompass the बहुमत of voters, writers, teachers, journalists, and editors.
Most societal trends in the US originate भीतर the middle classes.
The following is a list of Saturday रात्रि सजीव डाल members, past and present.
The cast members of Saturday रात्रि सजीव यहूद originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For Prime Time Players ''.
The original cast ( l to r ) : Laraine Newman, John Belushi, Jane Curtin, Gilda radner, डान aykroyd, garrett मॉरिस, और Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 सैन फ्रांसिस्को earthquake, remembered as one of the worst natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or विनाश, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any tragic event stemming from events ऐसे as भूकंप, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to life and property and destroy the economic, social and सांस्कृतिक जीवन of people.
In समकालीन academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
These risks are the उत्पाद of a संयोजन of दोनो hazard/s and vulnerability.
Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become आपदाओं, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters occur in developing countries, and losses due to natural disasters are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of GDP ) in developing देशों than in industrialized देशों.
In computing, booting ( also known as booting up ) is the initial set of operations that a computer system performs when electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned बंद, और ends जब the कंप्यूटर is ready to perform its normal operations.
On modern general purpose computers, this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating and initializing peripheral devices, and then finding, लदान और starting an operating system.
Many computer systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a software command without साइकिलिंग power, in what is known as a soft reboot, though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating system or runtime पर्यावरण लिये the कंप्यूटर after completion of the self-tests.
The computer term boot is short for bootstrap or bootstrap load और गर्भाशयी इससे the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls ध्यान to the आवश्यकता कि, if सबसे तन्त्र is loaded onto a कंप्यूटर by अन्य software already running on the computer, some mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
Early computers used a variety of ad-hoc methods to get a छोटी कार्यक्रम into memory to solve this problem.
The invention of एकीकृत सर्किट read-only मेमोरी ( rom ) of various types solved this paradox by allowing computers to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased.
Growth in the capacity of ROM has allowed कभी अधिक विस्तृत start up procedures to be implemented.
On general purpose कंप्यूटर, the बूट process begins with the execution of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or read in another fashion.
In some older computers, the initial program might have been the application to run, if no operating system was used, or the ऑपरेटिंग system.
In other computers, the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ), from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a मुश्किल डिस्क drive ) or, in some older computers, from a medium such as punched cards, punched tape, or magnetic tape in older computers, the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it.
If the boot लोडर is सीमित in इसके आकार और सामर्थ्य, it may, instead, load a larger and more capable secondary boot loader, which would then load the operating system or runtime environment.
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to begin कामकाज और जब turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database management system that runs on Linux, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
The database forked from borland 's open source edition of InterBase in 2000, but since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten.
Outsourcing is the contracting आउट of an internal business process to a third-party organization.
The practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is common in the आधुनिक अर्थव्यवस्था.
The पद `` आउटसोर्सिंग '' became लोकप्रिय in the United States near the turn of the 21st century.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring employees and assets from one firm to another, but not always.
The परिभाषा of आउटसोर्सिंग शामिल दोनो विदेशी and domestic contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring, which means relocating a business function to another country.
Financial savings from lower international labor rates is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring.
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing, which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes संपन्नता via vertical integration.
However, a business can provide a अनुबंध सेवा to another business without necessarily insourcing that business process.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ), a condition in इंसानो in जिससे प्रगतिशील failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood, semen, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or breast milk.
Within these bodily fluids, HIV is उपस्थित as दोनो फ़्री वायरस अणु and virus within infected immune cells.
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system such as helper T cells ( specifically CD4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral killing of infected cells, and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers मनाही नीचे a नाजुक स्तर, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a आग station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in fire stations, allowing firefighters responding to an alarm to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase.
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon, in Chicago, Illinois, although it is often incorrectly credited to the बोस्टन Fire Department.
Mary Poppins is the title character of a श्रेणी of children 's books written by P. L. Travers.
Throughout the Mary Poppins series, which lasted from 1934 to 1988, Mary Shepard was the illustrator and acted as a second author.
The books केन्द्र on a magical English nanny, Mary Poppins.
She is blown by the ईस्ट हवा to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane, London, and into the Banks ' household to care for their children.
Encounters with chimney sweeps, shopkeepers and various adventures follow जबतक मरियम poppins abruptly leaves, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
the adventures take place over a total of eight books.
However, only the first three books feature Mary poppins arriving और leaving.
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures इससे उसके असली three visits.
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the Park, `` She can not forever arrive and depart. ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring जूली Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, Disney नाट्य उत्पादित a स्टेज musical adaptation in the West End theatre.
The stage musical was transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 जहाँ it ran until its closing on March 3, 2013.
It has been highly कामयाब, as was the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of age teen romantic drama फिल्मी विकसित alongside निकोलस Sparks ' novel by the same name.
The film was directed by जूली Anne Robinson in her feature film directorial debut and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie.
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus, Liam Hemsworth, and Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as she reconnects with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town.
The film is वितरित by touchstone Pictures.
Sparks was approached to write दोनो the film 's screenplay and the novel.
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the completion of the novel, making The पिछला सोंग उसके पहला script to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North Carolina like the novel, moved to Georgia after the states had campaigned for months to host production.
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island, Georgia and nearby Savannah, The Last Song became the first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18, 2009 with much of it occurring on the island 's बीच and pier.
The Last Song was originally scheduled for wide release on January 8, 2010, but was स्थगित to March 31, 2010.
लिखा Simlish
Simlish is a fictional language featured in EA Games ' Sim series of games.
It debuted in simcopter, और has been especially prominent in The Sims, The Sims 2 and The Sims 3.
The Sims development team created the unique Simlish language by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian, French, लैटिन, फ़िनिश, अंग्रेज़ी, fijian, सेबुआनो, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4, SimCity Societies and simcity 2013, लकिन दूर less frequently.
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be taught to speak Simlish.
It is also featured to an extent in firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf.
Designer Will Wright थी सचेत of the need for dialogue in the game, but thought that using a real language would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
initially, प्रेरित by the देशी American code talkers of World War II, Sims creator Will Wright and language expert Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish.
However, they ultimately decided कि Simlish worked best as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words that could n't be translated, so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player.
Wright later commented कि using `` बकवास भाषा '' turned आउट to be the right development choice, as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one.
The actual sound of Simlish was निर्मित improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor.
An उदाहरण of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 IAE aircraft engine.
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on the root of the ब्लेड to be inspected साथ the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ).
Step 2 : यंत्र settings are input.
Step 3 : the probe is scanned over the blade root.
In this case, an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red line ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack.
principle of ultrasonic testing.
LEFT : A probe sends a sound wave into a परीक्षण material.
There are two indications, one from the initial pulse of the जांच, और the दूसरी due to the back wall echo.
सही : a defect creates a third indication and simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is संकल्पित by the ratio D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with बीच बारंबारता ranging इससे 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials.
A common example is ultrasonic thickness measurement, which tests the thickness of the परीक्षण ऑब्जेक्ट, लिये उदाहरण, to monitor pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys, though it can also be used on concrete, wood and composites, albeit साथ कम रेज़ोल्यूशन.
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace, automotive and other transportation sectors.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ), is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean, haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues, causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels, साथ resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
It also means local anemia in a given part of a body sometimes resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction, घनास्रता or वाहिकारोध ).
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the most common chromosome तबदीली in humans.
It is typically संबद्ध साथ a विलंब in cognitive ability ( mental retardation, or MR ) and physical growth, and a particular set of facial characteristics.
the औसत iq of यंग adults with Down syndrome is around 50, whereas young adults without the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR रै historically been defined as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with Down syndrome have a severe degree of intellectual disability.
Down syndrome is named after John Langdon Down, the अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक जो वर्णित the सिंड्रोम in 1866.
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne Dominique esquirol in 1838 और edouard seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby at जनम or पहले birth by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies with this diagnosis are प्रायः terminated.
The CDC estimates that about one of every 691 babies born in the United राज्य प्रत्येक year is born with Down syndrome.
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while others require specialised शैक्षणिक सुविधाएं.
Some children graduate from high school, and, in the US, there are increasing अवसर लिये participating in post-secondary education.
शिक्षा और उचित care has been shown to improve quality of life significantly.
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at paid नियुक्ति in the community, while others require a more sheltered work environment.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other causes, but which is often caused by the बदलना हार्मोन levels that are characteristic of menopause.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), known informally as the G.I. Bill, was a law that provided a range of benefits for returning World युद्ध II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
Benefits included low-cost mortgages, low-interest loans to start a business or farm, cash payments of tuition and living expenses to attend college, high school or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation.
It was available to every veteran who था been on active duty during the war years for at least ninety days and had not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
By the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 लाख veterans had used the G.I. Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities, and an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program.
Since the original 1944 law, the term has come to include other veteran benefit programs created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the G.I. Bill a major political success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the उपचार of संसार युद्ध i veterans—and a प्रमुख contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth.
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17, 1972 break-in at the लोकतांत्रिक National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C., and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal eventually led to the इस्तीफा of Richard Nixon, the President of the United States, on August 9, 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President.
The scandal also resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, and incarceration of forty-three व्यक्तियों, dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of पाँच मेन लिये तोड़कर और प्रवेश into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) कनेक्ट नकदी मिला on the burglars to a slush fund used by the Committee for the Re-Election of the President, the official organization of Nixon 's campaign.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the president 's staff, including testimony provided by former staff members in an छानबीन conducted by the सीनेट वाटरगेट कमेटी, it थी नाज़िल कि अध्यक्ष Nixon had a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings इससे ये टेपों implicated the अध्यक्ष, revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( और illegal ) goings-on कि था लिया प्लेस दौरान उसके प्रशासन, दोनो पहले और बाद the break-in.
After a protracted श्रेणी of bitter court battles, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the president had to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a दमदार सम्भावना of a conviction in the Senate, Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974.
His successor, Gerald Ford, तब जारी a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly lansing और स्पेंसर ) is a fictional character on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital.
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino ), one of the originating core characters of the श्रेणी.
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1, 1997 and has महरूम the तभी अनुबंध अभिनेत्री to play the role.
एलिज़ाबेथ is भाग of दो supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth Webber and Jason Morgan and Elizabeth Webber.
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan, also known as the Reagan administration, was a Republican administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to जनवरी 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing government programs and introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in American history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, known as `` Reaganomics ``, यहूद an उदाहरण of supply-side economics.
Reagan aimed to encourage उद्यमिता और सीमा the growth of social spending, as well as the reduction of regulation and inflation.
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in the 1980s, helping Reagan to win a landslide re-election.
The national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign policy, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and ending 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his predecessor, including an invasion of Grenada, the पहला प्रमुख विदेशी कार्रवाई by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War.
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to अर्धसैनिक शक्तियां seeking to फेकने communist governments, particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan.
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile defense systems in order to confront the Soviets and their allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a दमदार गठबंधन with UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and he met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '', or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the political realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his आस्था in free markets.
The Reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet Communism, and it did collapse just as he left office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar world with the U.S. as the संसार 's एकमात्र superpower.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term, Reagan himself left office with a 63 percent approval rating, एक of the उच्चतर स्वीकृति दरजा of departing presidents.
After years of unstinting praise from the right, and unrelenting criticism from the left, historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a सर्वसम्मति था उभरा among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the स्वदेश to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency and American self-confidence, and contributed critically to ending the Cold War.
Crude death रेट by देश ( 2006 ).
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in general, or due to a specific कारण ) in a जनसांख्यिकी.
Scaled to the size of that जनसांख्यिकी, per unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; thus, a mortality rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,000 होता औसत 9.5 मौतों प्रति साल in कि संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी, or 0.95 % out of the total.
It is distinct from morbidity rate, जिससे refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य during a given time period ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the क्रमांक of मौतों among a नियत of diagnosed hospital cases for a disease or injury, rather than for the general population of a country or ethnic group.
इस disease mortality statistic is more precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
One distinguishes:
the crude death rate, the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people.
the crude मौत रेट लिये the पूरे world is about 8.37 per 1000 per year according to the current CIA World Factbook.
The perinatal mortality rate, the sum of neonatal deaths और fetal मौतों ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
the maternal mortality ratio, the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period.
The maternal mortality rate, the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive age in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ).
The infant mortality rate, the number of deaths of children less than 1 year old प्रति 1000 सजीव births.
The चाइल्ड mortality rate, the number of deaths of children less than 5 years old per 1000 live births.
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - इस represents a आंशिक तुलना to the संख्याएँ of deaths that would have been expected if the population had been of a standard composition in terms of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This refers to the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g. age 62 last birthday ).
In regard to the or विफलता of चिकित्सा treatment or procedures, one would also distinguish:
The early mortality rate, the total number of deaths in the early stages of an ongoing treatment, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
The late मृत्यु रेट, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the late stages of an ongoing treatment, or a significant length of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude death rate as defined above and applied to a whole जनसांख्यिकी can दे a भ्रामक छाप.
The crude death rate depends on the आयु ( और लिंग ) विशिष्ट मृत्यु rates and the age ( and gender ) distribution of the population.
The number of deaths per 1000 लोगों can be उच्चतर लिये विकसित nations than in less-developed countries, despite life expectancy being higher in developed countries due to standards of health being better.
This happens because विकसित देशों typically have a completely different population age distribution, with a much higher proportion of older people, due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates.
A more complete picture of mortality is दिए by a जीवन तालिका जिससे shows the mortality rate separately for each age.
A life table is necessary to give a शुभ अनुमान of जीवन expectancy.
an otoacoustic उत्सर्जन ( OAE ) is a sound which is generated from within the inner ear.
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948, its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since महरूम दिखाया to उठता by a क्रमांक of अलग cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been damaged, so OAEs are often used in the laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health.
Broadly speaking, there are two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ), which can occur बगैर बाह्य उत्तेजनाओं, और जगाई otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), which require an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas developed from a तीव्र wave east of the Windward Islands on October 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very निकट संत लूसिया.
After reaching Category 2 औकात on the saffir-simpson स्केल, Tomas quickly weakened to a tropical storm in the central Caribbean Sea, due to strong wind shear and dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it reorganized near the Windward passage.
Throughout the hurricane 's पाथ, 71 people are known to have been killed, 14 of whom were in Saint Lucia.
Monetary losses throughout the Windward Islands were estimated at US $ 588 million, mainly in संत Lucia.
In the wake of the storm in Haiti, flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 people were मारे in क्यूबा और hispanola, though the distribution of these fatalities are unknown.
Overall damage from the storm was at least $ 741 million.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an American comedian, actress, satirist, singer and internet blogger best known as a cast member of the NBC television sketch कॉमेडी श्रेणी शनिवार रात्रि सजीव ( एसएनएल ) from 1986 to 1992.
She has received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack Obama, and is an active participant in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by भारी reliance on techniques like fragmentation, paradox, and questionable narrators, and is often ( though not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era.
Postmodern works are seen as a reaction against आत्मज्ञान सोच और Modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern literature, like postmodernism as a पूरे, tends to resist definition or classification as a `` movement ''.
Indeed, the अभिसरण of postmodern साहित्य साथ विभिन्न मोड्स of नाजुक सिद्धान्त, विशेषकर reader-response और deconstructionist approaches, और the subversions of the अव्यक्त अनुबंध between लेखक, टेक्स्ट और रीडर by जिससे इसके works हैं प्रायः characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions ऐसे as cervantes ' डॉन quixote ( 1605,1615 ) और laurence sterne 's eighteenth-century व्यंग्य tristram shandy होने retrospectively inducted into the मोड़ें.
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, and importance of postmodern literature, as is often the case with artistic movements, postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor.
For example, a postmodern साहित्यिक कार्य tends not to conclude with the neatly tied-up ending as is often found in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance over craft, and further employ metafiction to undermine the लेखक 's authority.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between high and low culture through the उपयोग of pastiche, the संयोजन of विषय और जाति नहीं previously deemed fit for literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical project founded in Germany by Michael Cretu, David Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, but based his रिकॉर्डिंग स्टुडियो a.r.t. studios in Ibiza, Spain, from the early 1990s until May 2009, where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date.
Cretu is both the composer and the producer of the project.
His former wife, pop singer Sandra, often provided vocals on पहेली tracks.
Jens Gad co-arranged and played guitar on three of the Enigma albums.
Peter कॉर्नेलियस also contributed to Enigma during the 1990s.
Seven studio albums have been उत्पादित अंतर्गत the name of the project.
Scooby-Doo is an American एनिमेटेड कार्टून मताधिकार, comprising several animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day.
The original series, Scooby-Doo, Where हैं You !
, was created for Hanna-Barbera Productions by writers जो माणिक्य और Ken Spears in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— फ्रेड जोन्स, daphne ब्लेक, velma dinkley, और norville `` shaggy '' Rogers — and their talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo, who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the success of the original series, Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner Bros. Animation have produced numerous follow-up and spin-off animated series and several related works, including television specials and telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different विसंगतियाँ on the दिखाएँ 's अलौकिक थीम, और शामिल characters such as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters.
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on सीबीएस इससे 1969 to 1976, when it moved to ABC.
ABC aired the show जबतक canceling it in 1986, and presented a spin-off featuring the characters as children, A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, from 1988 until 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo series, कया 's नई, scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy and scooby-doo मिलेंगी a a सुराग ! ] ], aired as part of Kids WB on The WB network and its successor, The CW network, from 2002 until 2008.
The most recent Scooby-Doo series, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery Incorporated, aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various scooby-doo श्रेणी हैं ब्रॉडकास्ट frequently on Cartoon Network and Boomerang in the United States and other countries.
Call of Duty is a first-person और third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise.
The series began on the PC, and later expanded to consoles and handhelds.
अनेक spin-off games have also been released.
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II, this includes : Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2, and Call of Duty 3.
शुरूआत साथ Modern Warfare, which is set in modern times, the series has shifted focus away from World War II.
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by Call of Duty : संसार at युद्ध and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes प्लेस in the ठंडा War, while Modern Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( Released नवम्बर 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are published and owned by Activision with aspyr मीडिया publishing it for Apple OS X.
While the studio Infinity वार्ड primarily स्टिल develops them, Treyarch has also developed several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive, Spark Unlimited, Amaze entertainment, n-space, विद्रोह developments, ideaworks खेल स्टुडियो, sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games.
The खेल उपयोग a किस्में of engines, including the id Tech 3, the Treyarch NGL, and the IW 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys, a card game created by Upper Deck, and a comic book mini-series प्रकाशित by wildstorm.
As of November 11, 2011, the Call Of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have sold over 100 million copies.
As of March 31, 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across सब of the कॉल of ड्यूटी titles, with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members.
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have been logged Modern Warfare 3 since its 2011 release.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such property is transferred via a will, according to the राज्य कानून of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of the मौत of the owner, such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust, or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries.
the एस्टेट कर is one part of the Unified Gift and Estate Tax system in the United States.
The other part of the system, the gift tax, imposes a tax on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी during a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate.
In addition to the संघीय सरकारी, अनेक states also impose an estate tax, with the state version called either an estate tax or an inheritance tax.
Opponents of the estate tax call it the `` death tax ''.
If an asset is left to a spouse or a federally पहचाना charity, the tax usually does not apply.
In addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be given by an व्यक्तिगत, before and/or upon their death, without incurring federal gift or estate taxes.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English actor and musician, known as the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, which lasted for eight years, he was the lead सिंगर और guitarist for Institute, and later began a solo career.
When performing solo, Gavin plays songs from his extensive musical libraries.
Rossdale has been क्रमित in the Top 100 Heavy Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), better known simply as Raphael, was an Italian painter and architect of the ऊँची Renaissance.
His work is admired for its clarity of रूप और आसानी of संयोजन and for its visual achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur.
Together with michelangelo और लियोनार्डो da विंची, he forms the traditional trinity of great masters of that period.
Raphael was enormously productive, running an unusually विशाल कार्यशाला, और despite उसके death at 37, a large body of his work remains.
Many of उसके works हैं मिला in the वेटिकन Palace, where the frescoed Raphael Rooms were the central, and the largest, work of his career.
The best known work is the स्कूल of एथेंस in the Vatican Stanza della Segnatura.
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed, लकिन लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the workshop from his drawings, with considerable loss of quality.
He was अत्यधिक influential in his lifetime, though outside Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking.
After his death, the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries, when Raphael 's अधिक निर्मल और समन्वयात्मक qualities यहूद again regarded as the highest models.
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles, first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria, then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic traditions of फ्लोरेंस, followed by उसके पिछला hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working for two Popes and their close associates.
Julia Fiona रॉबर्ट्स ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the romantic comedy Pretty Woman ( 1990 ), which grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy पुरस्कार nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman, she won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ), वेलेंटाइन 's Day ( 2010 ), Eat Pray Love ( 2010 ), and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion, making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts.
Roberts had become एक of the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the world, topping The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's net लायक थी estimated to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been named one of People magazine 's `` 50 Most Beautiful People in the संसार '' ग्यारह टाइम्स, tied with Halle Berry.
In 2011, she was named one of the `` 100 Hottest Women of All-Time '' by Men 's Health.
In 2001, महिलाओं घर जर्नल क्रमित her as the 11th most powerful woman in the United States.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14, 1984 ) is an American computer programmer and Internet entrepreneur.
He is best known as one of five co-founders of the social नेटवर्किंग जालस्थल फेसबुक.
As of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief कार्यपालिका of फेसबुक, inc. और in 2013 his personal wealth was estimated to be US $ 13.3 billion.
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, डस्टिन moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस, zuckerberg शुभारम्भ Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses nationwide and स्थानांतरित to पालो आल्टो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook and the number of Facebook users worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by अन्य in the समूह, who claimed a share of the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest and most influential people in the world by Time पत्रिका as a part of its Person of the Year accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood film the सोशल संजाल in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English तीर्थयात्रियों, including a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is एक of travail and survival in a harsh New World environment.
framedthe
कमेटी of तरीके और अर्थात् is the chief tax -writing committee of the United States House of Representatives.
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other House Committees unless they apply for a waiver from their पार्टी 's congressional नेतृत्व.
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation, tariffs and other revenue-raising measures, as खूब as a क्रमांक of अन्य कार्यक्रम including:
Social सुरक्षा
Unemployment लाभ
medicare
प्रवर्तन of child support laws
Temporary Assistance लिये मोहताज परिवारों, a federal welfare program
Foster care और adoption programs
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills regarding कराधान जरूर originate in the House of Representatives.
चूंकि हाउस कार्यविधि is कि सब बिल्स regarding कराधान जरूर go through this committee, the committee is very influential, as is its Senate counterpart, the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance.
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel, who had taken a leave of absence as chairman until हाउस आचार उल्लंघनों were resolved.
However, his छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as chairman was ruled to be a resignation.
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman, so Sander Levin held that position until the प्रारंभ of the 112th Congress.
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th Congress, बाद the republicans जीती control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ).
At in लंबाई और or अधिक in weight, it is the largest known animal to have ever existed.
Long and slender, the blue whale 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat हल्का underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific, B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. indica, found in the भारतीय समंदर, may be another subspecies.
As with other baleen whales, its diet consists लगभग exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales यहूद abundant in nearly सब the महासागर on धरती जबतक the शुरूआत of the बीसवीं सदी.
For over a century, they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers जबतक सुरक्षित by the international community in 1966.
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales विश्वव्यापी, located in at least five groups.
More recent research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests इस may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest population was in the Antarctic, numbering लगभग 239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी उत्तर Pacific, Antarctic, and Indian Ocean groups.
वहीँ हैं दो अधिक समूह in the उत्तर अटलांटिक, और at तनिक दो in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a variety of a species of thistle cultivated as a food.
The edible matter is कलियों कि रूप भीतर the पुष्प heads before the flowers come into bloom.
The buds go away or change to a coarse, barely edible form when the flower blooms.
The uncultivated or wild variety of the प्रजाति is पुकारा a cardoon.
It is a perennial plant native to the Mediterranean region.
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States करेंसी.
U.S. statesman, inventor, and diplomat बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन is currently featured on the obverse of the bill.
On the reverse of the banknote is an image of Independence Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed since July 13, 1969, when the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, और $ 10,000 यहूद retired.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 सालो ) पहले it is replaced due to पहनें and tear.
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` c-notes '', आधारित on the रोमन numeral for 100.
The bill is one of two denominations printed today that does not feature a President of the United States ; the अन्य is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the रिवर्स, according to the U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing, shows approximately 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar bills are delivered by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21, 2010, and was to be issued to the public on February 11, 2011, but production was shut down in December 2010 because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw.
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a blank space on the विधेयक जब खींचा out.
In their replacement, and continuing the high demand of this denomination, the Series 2006A was शुभारम्भ retaining the पिछला डिज़ाइन ( 1996-generation ).
On April 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve announced the new $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
King David in robes of a बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट.
Miniature from the Paris psalter.
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible, was the second king of the United Kingdom of Israel, and according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, his शासनकाल over यहूदा c. 1010–1002 BCE, and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David, although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', which most scholars take as confirmation of the अस्तित्व in the mid-9th सदी bce of a judean royal राजवंश पुकारा the हाउस of David.
He is depicted as a righteous king, although not without faults, as well as an acclaimed warrior, musician, and poet, traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the किताब of Psalms.
David is central to यहूदी, ईसाई, और Islamic doctrine and culture.
Biblical परंपरा maintains that a direct descendant of David will be the Messiah.
In Islam he is considered to be a prophet and the king of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the पूंजी और largest urban agglomerate of Nepal.
The agglomerate consists of काठमांडू महानगर City at its core, and its sister cities Patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also शामिल the recently पहचाना urban areas of Shankhapur, Karyabinayak, and Champapur.
Banepa, Dhulikhel, and Panauti are satellite urban areas of Kathmandu located just outside the काठमांडू घाटी.
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, काठमांडू metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants.
The metropolitan city area is and has a population density of 19,250 per km2.
The city स्टैंड at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of central Nepal.
It is surrounded by four major mountains : Shivapuri, Phulchoki, Nagarjun, and Chandragiri.
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu, ललितपुर, और भक्तपुर ), रै the highest population density in the country, and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
During Rana and Shah eras, the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what people जो जिया बाहर the valley called it.
During this period, अंग्रेजों historians called the valley itself `` Nepal Proper ''.
Today, Kathmandu is नहीं तभी the पूंजी of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, but also the headquarters of the Central Development Region of Nepal.
The Central प्रदेश comprises three zones : Bagmati, Narayani, and Janakpur.
Kathmandu is located in the bagmati Zone.
काठमांडू is the gateway to tourism in Nepal.
It is also the nerve center of the country 's economy.
It has the most advanced infrastructure of any urban area in नेपाल, और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is focused on tourism, which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a period of political unrest, but since तब has improved. )
The city has a समृद्ध इतिहास, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious and सांस्कृतिक festivities form a major part of the lives of people residing in Kathmandu.
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and many others follow Buddhism.
There are people of other religious beliefs as खूब, giving Kathmandu a cosmopolitan culture.
Nepali is the most commonly बोला भाषा in the city.
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous language spoken by the नेवार people.
Hindi is widely understood and English is समझा by Kathmandu 's educated residents.
the नगर 's literacy rate is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage, tourism industry, and economy ; therefore UNESCO 's World Heritage Site lists all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading, `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site ``.
Field hockey, usually referred to simply as hockey, is a team sport of the hockey family which is played between two teams of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard, solid plastic ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, साथ particular लोकप्रियता throughout Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan and India.
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada, the United States, and other regions of the world जहाँ the खेल of ice hockey is more popular.
During play, goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand माना 'part of the स्टिक ' ), साथ इस तभी applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick.
The team that scores the most goals by the end of the मैच विन्स.
If the score is tied at the समाप्त of the game, either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout, depending on the competition 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Hockey Federation ( FIH ), with men and women being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games, Commonwealth games, Hockey World Cup, Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup, with many countries running extensive junior, senior, and masters ' club competitions.
The FIH is also responsible for organising the हॉकी नियम फलक and developing the rules for the sport.
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant, with a field which is घटाया to लगभग 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules remaining the same, including obstruction and feet, there are several key variations - Players may not raise the ball unless shooting on goal, players may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers जिससे the ball will rebound off.
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the American CBS soap opera the यंग और the Restless.
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the संसार turns लकिन थी recommended for a role on The Young and the Restless instead.
The role was to be portrayed as an American, but गोडार्ड 's ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent influenced the character 's background.
Former head writer lynn मारी लैथम introduced him during the episode airing on January 12, 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family, a debut that received a mixed response.
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill फोस्टर एबॉट ( जेस वाल्टन ) लकिन the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009, reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ).
Though characterized as `` mysterious '', Cane is `` वफ़ादार और समर्पित '', while Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on the series, followed by his parents and एकसमान twin brother.
Soon after his debut, he became a leading अक्षर, a निर्णय praised by viewers and critics.
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ), Chloe मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson ) and most notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ), a romance that garnered significant fan attention.
In 2009, Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC would later call Lily the प्रेम of cane 's life.
The pair था दो children, Charlie and Mattie Ashby.
In 2011, the actor was fired, and Cane was shot to मौत onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return, revealing कि cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा brother was in fact the man who died.
This कुर्बान उसके विवाह to Lily, but the couple were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012.
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he portrays the character honestly, और is `` always dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an American actor, film producer, and musician.
He has won the Golden Globe पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन Actors Guild award for Best Actor.
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s television श्रेणी 21 जम्प गली, becoming a teen idol.
Dissatisfied with that status, Depp turned to film for अधिक चुनौतीपूर्ण भूमिकाएँ ; he निभाई the शीर्षक अक्षर of the acclaimed एडवर्ड scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in films such as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ), Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ), Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated with director and friend Tim Burton in आठ films ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, George Jung in Blow, and the bank robber John Dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies.
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy for Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl.
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American सिनेमा, होने twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World Records as the highest paid actor, साथ $ 75 million.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, वीडियो, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in कूच 1989 लिये कया होता eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Mark Travis John सांचेज़ ( born November 11, 1986 ) is an American football quarterback for the New York Jets of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as the fifth overall selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall.
He निभाई कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at the University of Southern California ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined and athletic family.
in the आठवीं grade, he began to play football and learn the intricacies of the quarterback position, training with his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to Southern California following his successful high school career in which he led his team to a चैंपियनशिप शीर्षक दौरान उसके फाइनल season.
At USC, Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first three years though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty.
Sanchez also became popular within the जातियाँ due to his Mexican-American heritage.
नामित the प्रारंभ in 2008, सांचेज़ led यूएससी to a 12–1 रिकार्ड और जीती the रोज़ कटोरी विरूद्ध penn राज्य लिये जिससे सांचेज़ थी awarded the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार लिये उसके प्रदर्शन on ठोकर.
Although many considered him too inexperienced, Sanchez announced his intention to डालें the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up साथ the क्लीवलैंड भूरा, और थी named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season.
Despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship खेल, a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts, becoming the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship Game where they narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers, 24–19.
With the win over the New England देशप्रेमी the सप्ताह prior, सांचेज़ tied four other quarterbacks for the second most post-season road victories by a quarterback in NFL history.
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships, Sanchez joined quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only two quarterbacks in NFL history to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन चैंपियनशिप in their first two seasons in the league.
The next two सीज़न होता be a regression for both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs.
Fans and media critics called for a struggling सांचेज़ to be benched.
He eventually was replaced towards the end of the 2012 season साथ ग्रेग McElroy.
Paul Avery ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) was an American police reporter, best known for his stories on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac, and later for his work on the Patricia hearst kidnapping.
A small submersible AC sump pump with a garden hose कनेक्टर
A sump pump is a पंप प्रयुक्त to हटाएँ जल कि रै accumulated in a water collecting sump basin, commonly found in the basement of homes.
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a तहखाने waterproofing system, funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural ground water, if the basement is below the water table level.
Sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens regularly और to उपाय dampness where the water table is above the foundation of a home.
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer समस्यापूर्ण, ऐसे as a नगरपालिका तूफ़ान नाली or a dry well.
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary sewer in older संस्थापना.
Once considered acceptable, this practice may now violate the plumbing code or municipal bylaws, क्युकी it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to डिस्कनेक्ट and reroute sump pump discharge away from sanitary sewers.
जुर्माना may be imposed for noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump configurations and do not realize that the pump discharges to the sewer.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry sink in the basement, it 's likely going to the sewer.
प्रायः hardwired into a घर 's विद्युत प्रणाली, sump पंपों may have a बैटरी बैकअप.
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps, eliminating the need for electricity at the expense of using potable water, potentially बनाना उन्हें अधिक महंगी to operate than विद्युत pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem.
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped, a बैकअप प्रणाली is important for cases when the main power is out for prolonged periods of time, as during a severe storm.
There are generally दो प्रकार of sump pumps — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal pump 's motor is mounted above the sump, where it is more easily सर्विस, but is also more conspicuous.
The pump impeller is driven by a long, vertical extension shaft और the impeller is in a स्क्रॉल आवास in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump, और is विशेषकर sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल जल table -related problems in surface soil.
An artesian aquifer or periodic high water table situation can cause the ground to become unstable due to water saturation.
As long as the pump functions, the सतह मृदा होगा remain stable.
These sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ; lined with corrugated मेटल पाइप कि contains perforations or drain holes throughout.
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are usually covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in.
Bleeding Kansas, Bloody Kansas or the Border War, was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border Ruffian `` elements, that took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring कस्बों of मिसौरी between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether कान्सास होता डालें the संघ as a free state or slave state.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and southerners over the समस्या of गुलामी in the United States.
the पद `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War.
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery शक्तियां.
The events later ज्ञात as bleeding कान्सास यहूद नियत into गति by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854, which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it होता be a फ़्री or स्लेव राज्य ; however, इस resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides.
At one point, Kansas had two separate governments, each with its own constitution, हालांकि तभी एक थी federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state, less than three months before the बैटल of फोर्ट sumter which began the Civil War.
Benzene is an organic chemical compound with the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 कार्बन अणु joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom.
Because its अणुओं contain only carbon and hydrogen atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, और is एक of the most basic petrochemicals.
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a cyclic हाइड्रोकार्बन साथ a continuous pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H. Benzene is a colorless and highly ज्वलनशील द्रव साथ a sweet smell.
It is मुख्यतः प्रयुक्त as a precursor to भारी रसायन, such as ethylbenzene and cumene, which are produced on a billion kilogram scale.
Because it has a high octane number, it is an important component of gasoline, composing a few प्रतिशत of इसके द्रव्यमान.
Most non-industrial applications have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an इतालवी astronomer and science historian.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of निन्टेंडो 's वी game console to run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo.
It achieves this by defeating the Wii 's copy सुरक्षा और कोड हस्ताक्षर measures.
in अधिक सामान्य शर्तें, वी homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the वी 's हार्डवेयर, accessories और तन्त्र लिये उद्देश्य बाहर those intended by the निर्माता.
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing यंत्र on अन्य ऑपरेटिंग systems, or running web-based games in the built-in web browser.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, such as the `` Twilight hack ``, `` bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '', `` Smash Stack '', `` Indiana Pwns '', `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '', `` bathaxx '', and `` Return of the Jodi '', made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible.
Hadley ( सही ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice.
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13, 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. Assistant to the President for नेशनल सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ), serving under President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing plants and give fertilizer to half of them.
If there are differences between the fertilized plant group and the unfertilized `` control '' group, these differences may be due to the fertilizer.
A scientific control is an experiment or अवलोकन designed to minimize the effects of variables other than the single independent variable.
This increases the reliability of the results, often through a comparison between control माप और the अन्य measurements.
Scientific controls are a part of the वैज्ञानिक method.
For example, during drug testing, scientists will try to control two groups to keep them as identical as possible, then allow one समूह to कोशिश the drug.
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the कंट्रोल group, because they establish the baseline level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against.
Without a control group, the experiment can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow more than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all परिवर्तनीय in an प्रयोग होगा be नियंत्रित ( accounted for by the control measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled.
In such an experiment, if all the controls work as expected, it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working as intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the प्रभाव of the परिवर्तनीय being tested.
That is, scientific controls allow an investigator to make a claim like `` Two परिस्थितियों यहूद एकसमान until factor X occurred.
Since factor X is the only difference between the two situations, the new outcome was caused by factor X. ''
< < Chemical elements data सन्दर्भ
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, and a leading advocate of American स्वतंत्रता from Great Britain.
खूब शिक्षित, he थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public फिगर in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि from Massachusetts to the Continental Congress, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, and was its primary advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain, and was जिम्मेदार लिये obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the दूसरी president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and रिटायर्ड to मैसाचुसेट्स.
He later resumed his friendship साथ जेफरसन.
He और उसके बीवी, अबीगैल एडम्स, founded an accomplished family line of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the पिता of जॉन Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times, though his योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the भवन कि eventually became known as the White House.
A Watt भाप engine.
The steam engine, fuelled primarily by कोयले, propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain and the world.
The Industrial Revolution was the परिवर्तन to नई निर्माण processes that occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840.
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines, new chemical manufacturing and iron production प्रक्रियाओं, improved दक्षता of जल शक्ति, the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools.
The परिवर्तन also included the change from wood and other bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades spread to Western Europe and the संयुक्त States.
The Industrial Revolution marks a major turning point in history ; almost प्रत्येक पहलू of रोज़ जीवन was influenced in some way.
Most notably, average income and population began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained growth.
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas, Jr., `` For the first time in history, the living standards of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained विकास... nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists, even as a theoretical possibility. ''
William Bell Scott आयरन और Coal, 1855-60
The period of time covered by the Industrial Revolution varies with different historians.
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully लगा जबतक the 1830s or 1840s, while T. S. Ashton held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the process of economic and social बदलें took प्लेस धीरे और the पद क्रान्ति is a misnomer.
इस is स्टिल a subject of debate among historians.
जीडीपी प्रति capita was broadly stable before the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
The औद्योगिक क्रान्ति began an era of per-capita economic growth in capitalist economies.
Economic इतिहासकारों हैं in अनुबंध कि the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants.
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the परिवर्तन सालो between 1840 और 1870, जब technological और आर्थिक progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats, ships and railways, the large scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories.
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born सितंबर 27, 1969 ), is an American television news reporter, currently appearing on Fox News Channel.
This list ranks U.S. cities by land area ( not सहित लाशें of जल ).
Total areas ( including water ) are also given, but note that, when ranked by total area, a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San फ्रांसिस्को is an चरम example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of its total area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily because its municipal government has merged with the सरकारी of the surrounding काउंटी.
In some cases the county no longer exists, while in others the arrangement has formed a संचित city–county ( or city- borough in Alaska, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These are shown in bold in the list below ( but not all examples may be indicated ).
** These are independent cities, meaning वे are not a part of any county.
The large intestine ( or bowel, कोलन ) is the पिछला भाग of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
Its function is to अवशोषित जल इससे the remaining indigestible food matter, and then to pass useless waste material from the body.
This article is primarily परिचय the human gut, though the information about its processes are directly applicable to most mammals.
The large intestine consists of the cecum, मलाशय and anal canal.
It starts in the सही iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis, just at or below the right waist, where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine.
From here it continues up the abdomen, then across the width of the abdominal गुहा, और तब it turns down, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
The large intestine is परिचय long, which is about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal.
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine includes the cecum, कोलन, rectum, and anal canal.
However, कुछ sources exclude the anal canal.
The Green Bay Packers हैं an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the North Division of the National फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख league professional sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney calhoun, the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास, डेटिंग वापस to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized valley located in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States, defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it.
Home to 1.76 million लोगों, it झूठ north of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin.
Nearly two thirds of the Valley 's land area is part of the City of लॉस एंजिल्स.
The other incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale, burbank, सैन फर्नांडो, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
San फर्नांडो Valley, Los Angeles
The exterior of the current World of Coca-Cola at pemberton प्लेस.
The World of Coca-Cola, is a permanent exhibition featuring the history of The Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions, and is स्तिथ in अटलांटा, Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as भाग of Georgia 's museums.
the complex located across Baker Street from Centennial Olympic Park that is home to the Georgia Aquarium and भविष्य Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating from and replacing the original exhibit.
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel और the second book of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld.
It is set in a future dystopian संसार in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by extreme cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16.
It tells the story of teenager Tally youngblood जो rebels against society 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26, 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life in थाना लिये murdering her children.
Born in Union, South Carolina, and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union, she was convicted on July 22, 1995 for murdering her two sons, 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith, born August 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide attention shortly बाद it विकसित, due to her claiming that a black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons.
She later claimed that वो suffered इससे दिमागी health issues that impaired her judgment.
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections, Smith will be eligible for parole on November 4, 2024, after serving a minimum of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at दक्षिण कैरोलिना 's Leath Correctional Institution, near Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon Athabaskan language meaning `` The ग्रेट एक '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea level.
At some, the base to peak rise is considered the largest of कोई mountain situated entirely above sea level.
Measured by topographic prominence, it is the तीसरा सबसे prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua.
स्तिथ in the अलास्का दायरा in the आंतरिक of us राज्य of अलास्का, it is the centerpiece of denali नेशनल पार्क और बचाना.
The first European to document sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794.
In 1903, James Wickersham recorded the first attempt at चढ़ाई mckinley which was unsuccessful.
In 1906, फ्रेडरिक कुक claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be false.
The first verifiable ascent to mckinley 's समिट थी हासिल on June 7, 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck, Harry Karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert Tatum.
In 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress route considered to be the safest and easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use.
The होंडा s600 is an automobile manufactured by Honda.
It was शुभारम्भ in March 1964.
Available as a roadster – bearing दमदार प्रतिरूप to the Honda S500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels.
During its production run up to 1966, the model styling would remain pretty much the same, with the most notable परिवर्तन coming to the front grille, bumper, and headlights.
संचालित by a dohc, water-cooled, four-cylinder इनलाइन इंजन साथ चार carburetors, the engine capacity was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine produced at 8,500 rpm and had a top गति of.
With the convertible weighing in at mere, the अतिरिक्त sheet metal of the coupe only added to the overall weight.
Suspension was independent with sealed roller chain drive to प्रत्येक पश्च wheel.
The S600 was the first mass marketed होंडा car.
First offered only in right-hand drive, it soon became available in left-hand ड्राइव to अपील to निर्यात markets.
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured in left hand drive, two or three even being दिखाया in some early sales brochures.
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special, upgraded package called the SM600 which included, among other items, special paint colors, exclusive badging, a standard radio and speaker, a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor, standard reversing lights, a standard cigarette lighter, a standard हीटर, बेहतर cushioned सीटे, और a detachable सीट track for quick removal of the passenger seat.
होंडा निर्मित 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris Rock ( who is also the narrator ) while growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant पड़ोस of ब्रुकलीन, नई यॉर्क.
The show is set between 1983 and 1987 ; however, Rock खुद was a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up with a boy named केनी Montero, whom he has often referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes.
In many साक्षात्कार, Rock has described Kenny as the reason he got into comedy in the first place.
The show 's title parodies the CBS sitcom everybody loves रेमंड.
Rock stated : `` Everybody Loves Raymond but everybody hates Chris ! ``.
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James Williams, Terry Crews, Tichina Arnold, Tequan रिचमंड, imani हकीम, और Vincent Martella.
In Fall 2008, the The cw स्थानांतरित everybody hates Chris and The Game to the Friday night death slot.
The fourth season of the series premiered Friday, अक्तूबर 3, 2008, at 8:00pm Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On May 21, 2009, The CW announced that it था cancelled Everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his own past—dropping out of high स्कूल to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show.
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the two pleural layers, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the फेफड़े.
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair श्वास by limiting the expansion of the lungs during ventilation.
बियोवुल्फ़ ( ; in बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी or ) is the conventional title of an Old English heroic epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex.
Its composition by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon poet is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire that swept through a building housing a collection of Medieval पांडुलिपियों समवेत by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
The poem fell into obscurity for decades, and its existence did not become widely ज्ञात again जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an edition prepared by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia, comes to the help of hroðgar, the किंग of the Danes, whose mead hall ( in Heorot ) has been under attack by a monster known as Grendel.
After Beowulf slays him, Grendel 's mother हमले the हॉल और is तब also defeated.
Victorious, Beowulf goes home to Geatland in Sweden and later becomes किंग of the geats.
After a काल of पचास years has passed, Beowulf defeats a dragon, but is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his death, his attendants bury him in a tumulus, a burial mound, in Geatland.
Shem Ham and japheth by जेम्स Tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as खूब as in इस्लामी literature.
He is most popularly regarded as the eldest son, though some परंपराओं लिहाज़ उसे as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative आयु of shem और उसके bhai Japheth, but with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the पिता of सब the children of eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born. ``.
However, the New अमरीकी मानक Bible gives, `` Also to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, and the older brother of Japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology note, ) two years after the flood, making him barely 99 at the time the flood began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this, making his age at death 600 years.
The children of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, lud, और aram, in जोड to daughters.
Abraham, the patriarch of the hebrews and Arabs, was one of the descendants of Arphaxad.
Islamic साहित्य describes Shem as one of the believing sons of Noah.
Some sources even identify Shem as a prophet in his own right and that he was the next prophet after उसके पिता.
In one Muslim legend, Shem was one of the people that God made Jesus resurrect as a sign to the Children of इसराईल.
The 1st century इतिहासकार flavius josephus, among अनेक अन्य, recounted the tradition that these five sons were the progenitors of the nations of Elam, Assyria, Chaldea, Lydia, and Syria, respectively.
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages, as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages, denoting the common linguistic heritage of Arabic, Aramaic, Akkadian, ethiopic, यहूदी और फ़ोनीशियाई भाषाएं.
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. talmud nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8. ), Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek, King of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings.
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe him, Shem is also credited with हत्या nimrod, बेटे of cush.
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown in red, Ham 's sons in blue, Shem 's sons in green.
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc. is a privately held company that is primarily an internet domain registrar and web hosting company.
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an ipo in 2006, but later canceled it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
In जोड to डोमेन पंजीकरण and hosting Go Daddy also sells e-business related software and services.
On June 24, 2011, The Wall Street Journal reported that private-equity firms KKR and Silver Lake Partners, along with a तीसरा निवेशकों, यहूद nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR, Silver झील Partners and Technology Crossover Ventures had closed the deal.
Although the purchase दाम थी नहीं officially घोषित it was reported to be $ 2.25 billion, for 65 % of the company.
, Bob पार्सन्स था ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren Adelman, who had been with the company for about 10 years.
The Andorran coat of arms at the Andorran पार्लियामेंट.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय, स्तिथ in the पूर्वी pyrenees kyu and bordered by Spain and France.
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe, having an क्षेत्रफल of और an अनुमानित population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, Andorra la Vella, is the highest capital city in Europe, at an उन्नयन of above sea level.
The official language is Catalan, although Spanish, पुर्तगाली, और फ्रेंच are also commonly spoken.
Created under a charter in 988, the present Principality was formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by two co-princes – the Bishop of Urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly because of its tourism industry, which सेवाएं an अनुमानित 10.2 million visitors annually, and also because of its status as a tax haven.
It is not a member of the European संघ, but the euro is the de facto currency.
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life प्रत्याशा in the world — 82 years at birth.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a व्यापक निजी, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
the विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an Act of Congress on February 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born अक्तूबर 21, 1980 ) is an American socialite, television personality and occasional actress.
In 2007, वो gained सुर्खी as the विषय of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding her $ 5 million ; later in that same year, she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, including Kourtney and किम लो New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
in 2010, Kardashian was the highest-earning reality star, with estimated earnings of $ 6 million.
With sisters Kourtney and Khloé, Kardashian co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H.
She has महरूम शामिल in the production of several lines of clothing and fragrances.
In August 2011, कार्दशियन शादीशुदा basketball player Kris Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That October, Kardashian filed लिये तलाक following 72 days of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash इससे the मीडिया, who labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 days, Kardashian and Humphries पहुँचे an अघोषित settlement at the Los Angeles Superior Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
aerial दृश्य of Oahu with freeways and highways, 3D computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of the island
Oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` The Gathering Place '', is the third largest of the Hawaiian आइलैंड्स और the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
The राज्य capital, Honolulu, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore आइलैंड्स ऐसे as घाट द्वीप और the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the eastern ( windward ) coast, it has a total land area of, making it the 20th largest island in the United States.
In the greatest आयाम, this volcanic island is long and across.
the लंबाई of the shoreline is.
The island is the result of two separate shield volcanoes : Waianae and Koolau, with a broad `` valley '' or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them.
The highest point is Mt. Ka'ala in the waianae दायरा, rising to above sea level.
The base currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar, and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
at one time, however, U.S. currency included five larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were printed for general use, and a $ 100,000 note was printed for certain internal transactions.
British Honduras was a British colony in सेंट्रल अमेरिका.
In 1981, the colony gained full independence, और is now the independent nation of Belize.
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century, the territory on the east coast of Central America, दक्षिण of मैक्सिको, became a अंग्रेजों क्राउन colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing उपनिवेश.
Belize became fully independent from the United Kingdom in 1981.
Belize was the last continental possession of the United किंगडम in the Americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel गेहूं, or hulled wheat, is an ancient species of wheat from the fifth millennium BC.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict crop in Central Europe and northern Spain और has found a new market as a health food.
Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum ), in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid wheat, which means it has six सेट of गुणसूत्रों.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective created by लेखक and physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
A London-based `` परामर्श जासूस '' जिनकी abilities किनारा on the fantastic, Holmes is famous for his astute logical reasoning, his ability to adopt almost any disguise, and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.
Holmes, who first appeared in publication in 1887, was featured in four novels and 56 short stories.
The first novel, A Study in Scarlet, appeared in Beeton 's Christmas Annual in 1887 and the second, The Sign of the Four, in Lippincott 's Monthly पत्रिका in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand Magazine, beginning with A कांड in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further series of short stories and two novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927.
The कहानियां cover a period from around 1880 up to 1914.
All but चार कहानियां हैं narrated by holmes 's dost और biographer, dr. जॉन H. वाटसन ; दो हैं narrated by holmes खुद ( `` the blanched सिपाही `` और `` the शेर 's माने `` ) और दो अन्य हैं लिखा in the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the mazarin स्टोन `` और `` उसके पिछला धनुष `` ).
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ), Holmes tells वाटसन the main story from his memories, while Watson becomes the narrator of the frame story.
The first and fourth novels, A Study in Scarlet and The Valley of भय, प्रत्येक शामिल a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson.
the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is one of the two houses of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
The अन्य हाउस is the Senate.
The संयोजन और शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं established in Article One of the United States Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. President in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is हकदार to at least one representative.
The most populous state, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि.
The कुल क्रमांक of मतदान representatives is fixed by law at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year पद.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the दक्षिण wing of the United States Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts, including fruit gels, puddings और no-bake मलाई pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it being प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक term for gelatin dessert across the U.S. and Canada.
kennywood is an मनोरंजन पार्क स्तिथ in वेस्ट mifflin, पेन्सिलवेनिया, a उपनगरीय of पिट्सबर्ग.
The park पहला खोली in 1898 as a `` ट्राली पार्क '' attraction at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan और यूँ began the kennywood entertainment कम्पनी that has remained a closely held family business for over 100 years.
This traditional amusement park still has structures and rides dating back to its opening and the early 1900s.
Along with Rye playland पार्क, it is एक of only two amusement parks listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood entertainment कम्पनी, जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 was a closely held family business owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based राजमहल entertainment, a subsidiary of parques reunidos, an international amusement park company based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover निवेश, an निवेश fund based in the UK.
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement Board in 1943 to a now deceased person.
In the United States, a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit क्रमांक जारी to u.S. citizens, permanent residents, and temporary ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act, codified as.
the क्रमांक is जारी to an व्यक्तिगत by the Social Security Administration, an independent agency of the United States government.
Its प्राथमिक purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form SS-5, `` Application for A Social Security Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of आर्ट और डिज़ाइन, विशेषकर विज़ुअल art and music, where the work is set out to expose the essence or identity of a subject through eliminating all non-essential forms, features or concepts.
Minimalism is any design or स्टाइल in जिससे the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect.
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified साथ developments in post–World War II Western Art, most strongly with American visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd, जॉन mccracken, agnes Martin, Dan Flavin, Robert Morris, Anne Truitt, and Frank Stella.
it is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism, and is often interpreted as a reaction against Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices.
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and iteration, as in the रचनाएं of la मोंटे यंग, Terry Riley, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
अल्पतम रचनाएं are sometimes known as systems music.
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything कि is अतिरिक्त or stripped to its essentials.
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett, the films of Robert Bresson, the stories of रेमंड carver, और भी the automobile designs of Colin Chapman.
The word थी पहला प्रयुक्त in English in the early 20th century to describe the Mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of partial pressures ) states that the total pressure exerted by the मिश्रण of non-reactive गैसों is बराबर to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
This empirical law was observed by John Dalton in 1801 और is सम्बन्धित to the ideal gas laws.
Mathematically, the दबाव of a mixture of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the आंशिक pressure of each component.
It is assumed कि the gases do not react with each other
where is the mole fraction of the i-th component in the कुल मिश्रण of n components.
The relationship below provides a way to determine the आवाज़ आधारित विशेषज्ञता of any individual gaseous component
where is the विशेषज्ञता of the i-th घटक expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's law is not exactly followed by रियल गैसों.
Those deviations are considerably large at high pressures.
In such conditions, the volume occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the free space between them.
In particular, the short average distances between molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular forces between gas molecules enough to substantially change the pressure exerted by them.
Neither of those effects are considered by the ideal gas मॉडल.
This is a list of the largest United States colleges and universities by नामांकन लिये कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the United States.
What this list शामिलs:
Colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों within the United States
University systems if the system is run under a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and ग्रैजुएट विद्यार्थी
Enrollment is counted by the एकीकृत post-secondary Education System within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the क्रमांक of unique students who attended the university during the year.
What this list does नहीं include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled students are full or भाग समय ( e.g., कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों may have a high enrollment, but have most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that माप university enrollment, see the See Also section below.
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo Rida, released as the lead single from his second studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
The song सुविधाएँ guest vocals from Kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was digitally released on 10 February by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball referee enthusiasm, while adapting the chorus of the 1984 मुर्दे or जिंदा सोंग `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the song 's writers, the कोरस refers to oral sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the United States, during the run atop the चार्ट, kesha थी uncredited.
The song received mostly negative reviews from critics, who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic.
However, it was a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, reaching the top ten of the charts in nineteen countries worldwide.
In the United States, it became Flo Rida 's second number-one single and broke the record for first-week sales जब it थी released to digital retailers.
The सिंगल 's accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो थी निर्देशित by मैल्कम जोन्स और मनोनीत लिये an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
The song has been used in अनेक movies, such as The Hangover, The Ugly Truth and the Telugu movie Pilla Zamindar.
In the movie Pitch Perfect, the song is performed by the a cappella समूह the Treblemakers.
The Chief Justice of the संयुक्त राज्य is the head of the United States federal court system ( the judicial branch of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
From 1789 जबतक 1866, the दफ्तर was known as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country, and acts as a मुख्य प्रशासनिक अधिकारी लिये the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
The Chief Justice also serves as a spokesperson for the न्यायिक शाखा.
The Chief Justice leads the business of the परम् Court.
He presides over oral वितर्क before the court.
When the court renders an opinion, the मुख्य justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion.
The Chief Justice also has significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings.
In the case of an impeachment of a President of the United States, which has occurred twice, the Chief Justice presides over the trial in the Senate.
In modern tradition, the Chief Justice has the ceremonial ड्यूटी of administering the शपथ of office of the President of the United States.
The first Chief इंसाफ was John Jay.
The 17th and वर्तमान Chief Justice is John G. Roberts, Jr.
हिरण निकट Prudhoe Bay, 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on Alaska 's North Slope.
It is the largest oil field in both the United States and in North America, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than दोगुना कि of the अगला largest field in the United States, the East Texas oil field.
The field is operated by BP ; partners are exxonmobil और conocophillips Alaska.
Labor unions are legally recognized as representatives of workers in many उद्योग in the United States.
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working conditions for their सदस्यता, और on representing उनके सदस्यों in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions.
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying क्रियाएँ और electioneering at the state and federal level.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger छतरियाँ संगठन : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005.
Both advocate policies and legislation on behalf of workers in the United States and Canada, and take an active role in politics.
The afl-cio is especially concerned with global trade issues.
In 2010, the प्रतिशत of मजदूर belonging to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in Finland.
Union membership in the private sector has गिरे अंतर्गत 7 % — स्तर not seen since 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited विपक्ष रै contributed to this decline in membership.
the सबसे prominent unions are among public sector employees such as teachers and police.
Members of unions are disproportionately older, पुरूष और निवासियों of the पूर्वोत्तर, the Midwest, and California.
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America after controlling for individual, job, and मजदूर मार्केट characteristics.
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s, American unions remain a prominent political factor, both through mobilization of उनके अपना memberships and through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights, trade policy, health care, and living wage campaigns.
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs, unions are currently advocating new `` card check `` federal legislation कि होता आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to सौदेबाजी साथ a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally supervised secret-ballot कर्मचारी referendum on the विषय.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working with market शक्तियां कि वे have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the United States has been associated with a pronounced वृद्धि in income and wealth inequality.
A ईसाई lacroix fashion boutique
A बुटीक is a छोटी खरीदारी outlet, especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry.
The word is French for `` shop '', via लैटिन इससे Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into everyday English use in the late 1960s when, for a brief period, London was the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were the focus of much मीडिया ध्यान as home to the most fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the ईस्ट of London has been regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas, such as Tower Bridge Road.
It can also refer to a specialised कड़ ऐसे as a बुटीक investment bank or boutique law firm.
The word is often used to describe a property in the independent section of the hotel market ( such as The Rockwell in London ) in अनुक्रम to फर्क themselves इससे larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In such cases the establishments aim to convey the idea that the operation is elite and highly specialised.
In the strictest भाव of the शब्द, boutiques होता be one-of-a-kind but more generally speaking, some chains can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular styles.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or उत्पादित in intentionally small numbers at very high prices.
This may be referred to as boutique निर्माण.
लिये उदाहरण, पहले the रिलीज of the वी, a समय पत्रिका आलेख सुझाया कि निन्टेंडो could become a `` boutique video-game company '', producing games for niche audiences, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
In the परंपरागत luxury- देखें उद्योग Scalfaro International is considered as the precursor in manufacturing and sale of bespoke watches.
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique manufacturing site, which allows producing small series or भी अद्वितीय timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items, others simply produce t-shirts, stickers, and other fashion accessories in artificially छोटी रनों और बेचें उन्हें at unusually high prices.
In the early 1990s Selena started manufacturing her अपना लकीर of women 's clothing.
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc. बुटीक & सैलून '' एक स्तिथ in Corpus Christi and one located in San Antonio, Texas.
One was due to open in Monterrey, Mexico, in 1995 लकिन due to her death it was not opened.
Around 1999 the San Antonio location closed and the कॉर्पस Christi location was closed in 2009.
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle थीम, in the रूप of `` अवधारणा स्टोर्स '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in Milan, Italy followed by Colette in पेरिस और quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters, D-A-S-H, and the गैप, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई chain Billabong and, though less common, Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit union headquartered in Vienna, Virginia, चार्टर्ड और regulated अंतर्गत the authority of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest natural member ( or retail ) credit union in the संसार, both in asset size and in membership.
As of सितंबर 2012, Navy Federal had over $ 50 billion USD in assets, and over 4 million members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), known by his stage name Stevie Wonder, is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century.
Blind since shortly बाद जनम, Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the age of eleven, and continues to perform and record for Motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition ``, `` सर ड्यूक ``, `` You Are the Sunshine of My Life `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also include Talking Book, innervisions और गीतों in the Key of Life.
He रै अंकित अधिक than thirty U.S. top ten hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for राजनैतिक कल्याणकारी, सहित उसके 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States.
In 2009, Wonder was नामित a United Nations Messenger of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the us singles चार्ट 's fiftieth anniversary, with Wonder at number five.
By popular vote, स्टीवी was inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of Fame at SoulMusic.com in December 2012.
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', for mind/soul, and -ωσις `` -osis '', for abnormal कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality ``.
People suffering from psychosis हैं वर्णित as psychotic.
Psychosis is given to the अधिक कठोर फ़ॉर्म of मनोरोग विकार, during which hallucinations and delusions, gross excitement or stupor and impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything इससे अपेक्षाकृत सामान्य aberrant अनुभवों through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder.
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases, from both external substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of psychosis.
This led many professionals to say that psychosis is not specific enough as a diagnostic term.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative signs ) and more commonly to diverse types of मति or delusional मान्यताओं ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of मनस्ताप, विशेषकर those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of पर्यावरणीय stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of ये दवाएँ, however, दिखाएँ either no significant अंतर between drug and placebo, or a very small effect size, suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system.
लोगों experiencing psychosis may exhibit some personality changes and thought disorder.
Depending on its severity, this may be accompanied by असामान्य or विचित्र बर्ताव, as खूब as परेशानी साथ social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities.
General Grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the Star Wars universe.
A recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a political faction of ग्रहीय प्रणालियों waging युद्ध on the गांगेय Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber कॉम्बैट by Count Dooku, he is a ruthless and powerful warrior devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars.
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi देह गिनती होता संकेत the galaxy to give him the nickname the Knightslayer.
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the Clone Wars who had killed the most Jedi in single combat, he did not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose.
Statistics play an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in summarizing baseball performance and evaluating players in the sport.
Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it, and normally खिलाड़ी अधिनियम individually rather than performing in clusters, the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been kept for पेशेवर बेसबॉल चूंकि the creation of the National League and American League, now part of Major League Baseball.
Many statistics हैं भी उपलब्धियाँ इससे बाहर of Major League Baseball, from leagues such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues.
dorothea lange 's migrant माँ depicts destitute pea pickers in California, centering on Florence Owens Thompson, age 32, a mother of seven children, in Nipomo, California, March 1936.
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60, with the years of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The unemployment rate in the us 1910–1960, with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic depression in the decade preceding World War II.
The timing of the Great Depression varied across राष्ट्र, लकिन in सबसे देशों it started in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s.
It was the longest, most widespread, and deepest depression of the 20th century.
In the 21st century, the Great Depression is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline.
The depression originated in the U.S., after the fall in stock prices that began around September 4, 1929, and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of October 29, 1929 ( ज्ञात as Black Tuesday ).
The Great अवसाद had devastating effects in countries rich and poor.
Personal income, tax revenue, profits और prices dropped, while international trade plunged by more than 50 %.
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 %, and in some countries रोज़ as ऊँची as 33 %.
Cities all around the world were hit hard, विशेषकर those dependent on heavy industry.
Construction was वस्तुतः halted in many countries.
Farming and rural areas suffered as क्रॉप कीमतें गिरी by approximately 60 %.
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of jobs, areas dependent on primary sector industries such as cash cropping, mining and logging suffered the most.
Some economies started to रिकवर by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the negative effects of the Great अवसाद lasted जबतक the end of World War II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ), also known as a premature ventricular complex, ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ), ventricular premature beat ( VPB ), or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ), is a relatively common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node, the normal heartbeat initiator.
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped beat `` or लगा as palpitations in the chest.
In a normal धड़कन, the ventricles अनुबंध बाद the atria have helped to fill them by contracting ; in this way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with blood, which means कि circulation is inefficient.
However, single beat PVC arrhythmias do not प्रायः पोज़ a खतरे और can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William Gary Busey ( born June 29, 1944 ), better known as Gary Busey, is an American film and stage कर्ता, and artist.
He has appeared in a variety of films, सहित lethal हथियार, पाइंट ब्रेक, और Under Siege, as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, Walker, Texas Ranger, Law & Order, and Entourage.
He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in The दोस्त होली स्टोरी.
The Anti-Counterfeiting व्यापार अनुबंध ( ACTA ), is a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing international standards for intellectual property rights enforcement.
The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods, generic medicines and copyright infringement on the अंतरजाल, और होता बनाएँ a नई शासी body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World Intellectual Property Organization, or the United Nations.
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States.
In 2012, Mexico, the European Union and 22 countries जिससे हैं सदस्य states of the European Union signed as well.
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement, which would come into force in countries that ratified it after ratification by छह देशों.
Supporters have वर्णित the agreement as a response to `` the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV उद्योग और विशाल बौद्धिक property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development.
Opponents say the convention adversely affects fundamental rights सहित freedom of expression and privacy.
ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering अभिगम to दवाइयाँ in विकासशील countries.
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups, developing countries और the सामान्य पब्लिक इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation process and it has been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European Parliament 's appointed chief अन्वेषक, rapporteur कादर आरिफ, as खूब as फैली विरोध across Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, अंग्रेजों MEP David Martin, recommended against the treaty, stating : `` The intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary session, with 478 मतदान विरूद्ध the treaty, 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining.
FAW semi-trailer ट्रक in China
Tractor with पक्ष डम्प ट्रेलर semi-trailer
A ट्रैक्टर with an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer truck with sleeper पीछे the cab.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle that consists of a towing engine, known as a tractor in the संयुक्त राज्य और ट्रक in अनेक अन्य स्थान, attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, ट्रक और ट्रेलर, ट्रांसफ़र ट्रक, 18-wheeler, mack ट्रक, big rig in the United States, or artic, short for articulated lorry, in Britain and Ireland.
A semi-trailer does not trail completely behind the towing गाडी, लकिन is attached at a point that is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
This is done so that a fraction of the weight of the trailer is carried by the prime mover.
इस व्यवस्था means that both tractor and semi-trailer will have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer.
The Pittsburgh Steelers are a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Founded in, the Steelers are the oldest franchise in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( six ), won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( पंद्रह ) और hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team.
The Steelers share the record for most Super Bowl appearances with the डलास cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers won their most recent चैंपियनशिप, सुपर कटोरी xliii, on February 1, 2009.
the स्टीलर्स यहूद संस्थापित as the पिट्सबर्ग Pirates on July 8, 1933, by Art Rooney, taking its original name from the baseball team of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The ownership of the Steelers has remained within the Rooney family since its founding.
The current owner is Art 's son, Dan Rooney, who has given much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams, the स्टीलर्स आनंद a विशाल, फैली fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation.
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh 's North Side in the North Shore neighborhood, which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced तीन नदियाँ Stadium which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
Prior to Three Rivers, the Steelers था निभाई उनके खेल in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three अलग kinds of wheat and rye flour
Flour is a powder जिससे is बना by पीस खाद्यान्न grains, or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ).
It is the प्रमुख संघटक of bread, which is a staple food for many cultures, making the availability of adequate supplies of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in European, North American, Middle पूर्वी, भारतीय और North African cultures, and is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries.
While wheat is the सबसे आम आधार लिये आटा, मकई flour has been important in Mesoamerican cuisine since ancient times, and remains a staple throughout the Americas.
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe, and rice can also be used in flour, हालांकि इस is अपेक्षाकृत uncommon.
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats per unit of time, typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड changes, such as during physical exercise, sleep, illness, or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central बेचैन system stimulants such as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल रेट ( अलावा from some particularly strange ones with equally strange effects, such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ).
There are many ways in which the दिल रेट speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain, many of which are those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and प्रसंस्करण of drugs.
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume, one of the physiological ways to deliver more oxygen to an organ is to बढ़ाएँ heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
Normal resting दिल दरों दायरा from 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is defined as a resting दिल rate below 60 bpm.
However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm are common among healthy people and do not necessarily require खास ध्यान.
tachycardia is पारिभाषित as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm, though persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm, mainly if they are present during sleep, may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded Coronation Coach ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people, usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded, since they are wheelless vehicles.
the carriage is विशेषकर designed लिये निजी यात्री उपयोग और लिये सुकून or लालित्य, हालांकि कुछ हैं भी प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण goods.
It may be लाइट, smart and fast or heavy, large and comfortable.
carriages सामान्यतः have suspension using leaf springs, elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping.
A public passenger vehicle would not usually be पुकारा a carriage – terms for such include stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart share important parts of the history of the carriage, as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust भूकंप कि occurred at 00:58:53 utc on Sunday, 26 December 2004, with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is ज्ञात by the वैज्ञानिक community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.
The resulting tsunami was given various names, including the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, South Asian tsunami, Indonesian सुनामी, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean, killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries, और inundating coastal communities with waves up to high.
It was one of the deadliest natural disasters in अंकित इतिहास.
इंडोनेशिया थी the hardest-hit country, followed by Sri Lanka, India, and Thailand.
With a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the तीसरा largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph.
The earthquake had the longest duration of faulting ever observed, between 8.3 और 10 minutes.
It caused the entire planet to vibrate as much as and triggered other earthquakes as far away as अलास्का.
Its epicentre was between Simeulue and मेनलैंड इंडोनेशिया.
The plight of the affected people and देशों prompted a worldwide humanitarian response.
In all, the worldwide community दान अधिक than $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power स्टेशन in Iceland.
geothermal उर्जा is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the energy that determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its सतह, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the कोर to surrounding cooler rock.
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the ठोस चट्टान.
The magma heats rock and water in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, लकिन it is अभी बेहतर ज्ञात लिये विद्युत generation.
विश्वव्यापी, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, विश्वसनीय, चिरस्थायी, and environmentally friendly, but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources, especially for अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग, खोलने a संभावित for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much lower प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of चट्टान fuels.
As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global वार्मिंग if widely तैनात in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's energy needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and खोजी लिये गहन resources is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable उर्जा सोर्स जैसे geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट दो decades.
In 2001, geothermal उर्जा लागत between two and ten cents per kwh.
The पद घन पैर is an Imperial and US customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume, used in the United States and the United Kingdom.
It is defined as the volume of a cube with sides of एक पैर ( 0.3048 m ) in length.
To calculate cubic feet multiply length X width X ऊँचाई.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc, was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and अध्यक्ष ( 1945–1969 ) of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम ( उत्तर वियतनाम ).
He was a key figure in the foundation of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945, as well as the people’s फौज of वियतनाम ( pavn ) और the việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941 onward, establishing the communist -ruled Democratic Republic of वियतनाम in 1945 और defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
he officially stepped bas इससे शक्ति in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, लकिन remained a अत्यधिक दृश्य figurehead और प्रेरणा लिये those वियतनामी लड़ लिये उसके cause—a संयुक्त, कम्युनिस्ट vietnam—until उसके मौत.
After the war, Saigon, capital of the गणतंत्र of वियतनाम, थी renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
All Roads Lead Home is a feature film released on September 26, 2008.
Directed by Dennis Fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, जेसन London, Vivien Cardone, Vanessa Branch, Peter Coyote, Stephen Milton, and Allan Kayser.
The movie was filmed in and around कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी.
The movie made its World Premiere January 27 at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival.
The film has also recently been in several film त्यौहार, और रै received bad reviews.
Peter Boyle died before the फिल्म 's रिलीज.
It was the last फिल्म he appeared in.
Sales taxes in the United States are कर लगाई on the बिक्री or lease of goods and services in the United States.
While no national सामान्य sales tax exists, the federal government levies several national selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods and services.
Furthermore, forty-five राज्य, the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, and Guam impose general sales taxes that apply to the sale or lease of most goods and some services, and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services.
States may also delegate to local governments the authority to impose अतिरिक्त सामान्य or selective sales taxes.
Sales कर is गणना by multiplying the purchase price by the applicable tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by jurisdiction and range from कम than 1 % to over 10 %.
Sales tax is collected by the seller at the समय of sale.
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who has not paid sales tax on a taxable purchase.
Unlike the value added tax, a sales tax is imposed तभी एकबार, at the retail level.
However, in cases where items are sold at retail more than once, such as used cars, the बिक्री कर can be चार्ज on the same item indefinitely.
The परिभाषा of खुदरा बिक्री और what goods and services are taxable vary among the states.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods and services that are exempt from sales tax, or taxed at reduced rates.
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in grocery stores, नुस्खा medications, and many agricultural supplies.
Sales taxes, including those imposed by local governments, are generally administered at the state level.
States imposing बिक्री कर आवश्यकता retail sellers to collect tax from customers, file returns, and remit the tax to the state.
Procedural rules vary widely.
विक्रेता generally जरूर collect tax from in-state purchasers unless the purchaser provides an exemption certificate.
सबसे राज्य allow or require electronic remittance.
A central processing unit ( CPU ), also referred to as a central processor unit, is the hardware within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical, logical, and input/output operations of the system.
The term has been in use in the कंप्यूटर उद्योग at least since the early 1960s.
the रूप, डिज़ाइन, और क्रियान्वयन of CPUs have changed over the course of their history, but their fundamental operation remains much the same.
A कंप्यूटर can have more than one CPU ; this is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain अनेक CPUs on a single chip ; those ICs are called multi-core processors.
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic and logical operations, and the कंट्रोल ईकाई ( cu ), जिससे extracts निर्देश इससे मेमोरी and decodes and executes them, calling on the ALU when necessary.
Not all computational systems rely on a central प्रसंस्करण unit.
An array processor or vector processor has multiple parallel कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व, साथ no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the वितरित कम्प्यूटिंग model, problems are solved by a distributed interconnected set of processors.
RFID चिप अगला to a grain of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in उपभोक्ता products, and implanted in pets, for identification purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking टैग संलग्न to वस्तुएँ.
The tags contain electronically stored सूचना.
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक प्रेरण ).
अन्य उपयोग a लोकल शक्ति सोर्स ऐसे as a बैटरी, or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e., इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण at ऊँची बारंबारता ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
rfid tags are used in many industries.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its प्रगति through the सभा लकीर.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have tags injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of पढना personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns.
Overtime is the amount of time someone works beyond normal working घंटों.
Normal घंटों may be determined in several ways:
by custom ( what is considered healthy or उचित by समाज ),
by practices of a given trade or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between employers and workers or उनके प्रतिनिधि.
Most nations have ओवरटाइम labor laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees to work excessively long hours.
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian, such as preserving the स्वास्थ्य of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common approach to regulating overtime is to require employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work.
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by law, particularly if they believe that they face a पिछड़ा झुकने सप्लाई वक्र of श्रमिक.
Overtime अदा दरों can कारण workers to work longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate.
ओवरटाइम कानून, attitudes toward ओवरटाइम और घंटों of work vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors.
Visualization of links between पृष्ठों on a wiki using a force-directed layout.
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms लिये drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional स्पेस so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as possible, by assigning forces among the set of edges and the set of nodes, based on their relative positions, and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy.
While graph आरेखण can be a मुश्किल प्रॉब्लम, force-directed algorithms, being physical simulations, usually require no special knowledge about graph theory such as planarity.
खरीदना शक्ति ( sometimes retroactively पुकारा समायोजित for inflation ) is the amount of goods or services that can be purchased with a unit of currency.
For example, if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s, you would have been able to buy a greater number of items than you would today, indicating that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a कमोडिटी धन, जैसे सुनहरा or silver, or fiat currency, or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars.
As Adam Smith noted, having money gives one the ability to `` command '' others ' labor, so खरीदना शक्ति to कुछ extent is power over other people, to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency.
If one 's monetary income stays the same, but the दाम स्तर increases, the purchasing power of that income falls.
Inflation does नहीं सदा imply गिरना खरीदना शक्ति of एक 's money income since it may rise faster than the price level.
A higher real income means a higher purchasing शक्ति since real income refers to the income adjusted for inflation.
For a price index, its value in the base year is usually सामान्यीकृत to a value of 100.
The purchasing शक्ति of a ईकाई of करेंसी, say a dollar, in a given year, expressed in dollars of the base year, is 100/P, where P is the price index in that year.
So, by definition the purchasing power of a dollar decreases as the price level rises.
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money, t सालो into the भविष्य, can be computed with the formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed भविष्य सालाना inflation rate.
Education in South Korea is viewed as being निर्णायक लिये कामयाबी और competition is consequently very heated and fierce.
A central प्रशासन oversees the process for the education of children from kindergarten to the third and final year of high school.
Mathematics, science, Korean, English, and सोशल अध्ययन हैं generally माना to be the most important subjects.
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised, by the generally academic elitist South Korean populace, as education and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
दक्षिण कोरियाई थी the पहला देश in the संसार to provide high-speed अंतरजाल अभिगम to सब प्राथमिक, जूनियर, और ऊँची स्कूलों.
Although South Korean students often rank highly on international तुलनात्मक आकलन जब compared to विद्यार्थी of most Western education systems, the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South Korean education system is rather notably strict and overly structured as compared to its counterparts in most Western societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in विद्यार्थी are criticised as a major social problem.
The My Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March 16, 1968, by United राज्य Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
Victims included women, men, children, and infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated और many women were allegedly raped prior to the killings.
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses लिये उनके क्रियाएँ at mỹ lai, तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट William Calley, a platoon leader in Charlie Company, was convicted.
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers, he was originally given a जीवन sentence, but only served three and a half years under house arrest.
The massacre took place in the hamlets of My Lai और my Khe of Son My village.
The event is also known as the Son My Massacre, especially in the वियतनामी राज्य मीडिया.
the u.S. सैन्य codeword लिये the `` viet cong stronghold '' थी `` pinkville ''.
The incident prompted वैश्विक आक्रोश जब it became public knowledge in 1969.
The massacre also increased domestic opposition to the U.S. involvement in the वियतनाम War.
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre and protect the wounded were initially denounced by अनेक u.s. Congressmen as traitors.
They received hate mail and death threats and found mutilated पशु on their doorsteps.
The three were later widely praised और सजा by the फौज for their heroic actions.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda, and 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia.
Others were इससे मिश्र, Lebanon, and the UAE.
The hijackers were व्यवस्थित into चार टीमों, प्रत्येक led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid al-mihdhar और Nawaf al-Hazmi, who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi, और ziad jarrah जल्दी in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, Hani Hanjour, arrived in San Diego in December 2000.
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early summer of 2001, just months before the September 11 attacks.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a धार्मिक, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by मुसलमान and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is लगभग universally माना by Muslims as the last prophet sent by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the संस्थापक of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca, he was orphaned at an early age और brought up अंतर्गत the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked ज़्यादातर as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with hostility इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as yathrib ) in the year 622.
This इवेंट, the हिज्र, marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the जनजातियों under the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by तब had grown to 10,000, took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few months after returning to मदीना इससे the Farewell Pilgrimage, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to islam, और he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
The खुलासे ( or Ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' और around जिससे the धर्म is based.
Besides the कुरान, मुहम्मद 's जीवन ( सिरा ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other नबियों of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely negative, appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास have महरूम far less so.
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest लोगों in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research, such as the जराविद्या शोध समूह ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 सालो, 164 days.
She met विंसेंट वैन gogh when she was 12 or 13.
This led to news media attention in 1985, बाद calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age, beyond any उचित सवाल, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the आयु of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura, who currently lives in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented.
he रै भी महरूम the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year बूढ़ा koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
This is a timeline of the african-american सिविल Rights Movement.
The Civil अधिकारों movement was a freedom struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the movement were freedom इससे पक्षपात, बराबर अवसर in employment, education and housing, the right to vote and equal access to public facilities.
Heavy मेटल ( प्रायः referred to as मेटल ) is a विधा of चट्टान म्यूज़िक कि विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s, largely in the संयुक्त किंगडम और in the संयुक्त राज्य.
With roots in ब्लूज़ चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, the bands कि निर्मित heavy metal developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally associated साथ मर्दानगी and machismo.
The first heavy metal bands such as led zeppelin, गहन जामुनी और ब्लैक sabbath attracted large audiences, though they were often derided by critics, a status common throughout the history of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its blues influence ; Motörhead introduced a पंक rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed.
Bands in the New Wave of अंग्रेजों भारी मेटल such as Iron Maiden followed in a similar vein.
Before the end of the decade, heavy metal fans became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam metal became a commercial force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica, Megadeth, Slayer, and एंथ्रेक्स, जबकि अन्य शैलियाँ of the most extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu metal, which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore, जिससे मिश्रणों चरम मेटल साथ hardcore punk, have further expanded the definition of the genre.
The far-right ( also known as the extreme right ) refers to the उच्चतम उपाधि of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society, and supports supremacy of certain individuals or groups deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as स्वाभाविक विशेषताएँ of people that can not be changed.
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours, ऐसे as आलस्य or decadence, as the primary sources of social inequalities.
The centre right—unlike the far right—claims that people can end their behavioural हीनता through changing their habits and choices.
The original far right, which emerged in France after the French Revolution, refused to accept the French Republic and supported a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy.
The far right is commonly associated with persons or groups who थाम चरम nationalist, xenophobic, racist, religious fundamentalist or reactionary views.
the सबसे extreme-right movements have pursued oppression and genocide against groups of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury, was an अंग्रेज़ी पारस, बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज for his work on political philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most of Western political दर्शनशास्त्र इससे the perspective of social contract theory.
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he also developed some of the fundamentals of यूरोपीय उदार विचार : the सही of the व्यक्तिगत ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view that all legitimate political power must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He was one of the founders of आधुनिक राजनैतिक philosophy.
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion, remains influential ; and his account of human nature as self-interested cooperation, and of political समुदायों as होने आधारित upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a विविध सरणी of अन्य फ़ील्ड, including history, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify, assess, and control the भाव of oneself, of अन्य, और of groups.
It can be divided into क्षमता EI and trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence, whereas trait EI is प्रायः measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real प्रज्ञा और whether it has incremental validity over IQ and the Big Five personality traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to औलाद from its parents or ancestor.
This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the विशेषताएँ of its parent cell or organism.
Through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some प्रजाति to evolve.
The study of heredity in biology is called आनुवंशिकी, which includes the field of epigenetics.
For United States individual income tax, adjusted gross income ( AGI ) is कुल सकल आय minus specific reductions.
Taxable income is adjusted gross income minus allowances for personal exemptions and itemized deductions.
लिये सबसे individual tax purposes, AGI is more relevant than gross income.
Gross income is sales price of goods or property, minus cost of the property sold, plus other income.
It includes wages, interest, dividends, कारोबार आय, rental आय, and all other types of income.
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a business or rental activity और 21 अन्य विशिष्ट items.
Several deductions ( e.g. medical expenses and miscellaneous itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI.
Certain phase outs, including those of lower tax rates and itemized deductions, हैं आधारित on levels of AGI.
Many states base state income tax on agi साथ निश्चित deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third single from silversun pickups ' डेब्यू album Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman, The tonight दिखाएँ साथ jay लीनो, बाद With Jools Holland, and Last Call with Carson Daly.
The song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour.
An alternate version of the song, with a length of 7:27, was played on XMU before the shorter संस्करण थी निभाई on FM and other XM channels.
This version was featured on their demo CD ( which प्रदर्शित early versions of four tracks ).
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone number ; in the North American क्रमांकन योजना देशों ( देश कोड 1 ), it is the first three digits of a seven-digit phone number.
In other countries दोनो the उपसर्ग और the number may have different lengths.
It shows which exchange the remaining numbers refer to.
A full telephone number is usually made up of देश कोड ( required for international calls only ), area code ( required for calls between telephone areas ), prefix, and subscriber number.
Some places restrict certain prefixes to फैक्स संख्याएँ or कोशिका फोन only ; in other places such dedicated prefixes are not used.
As telephone technology advanced, the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in London, UK, was once the GULliver exchange, लकिन अभी 44207485xxxx is बस माना एक of अनेक क्रमांक ब्लॉक served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( BP, सुनाया, ; originally बेची as glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight and obese people and those with सामान्य गुर्दा function.
Its use in gestational मधुमेह रै been limited by safety concerns.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and has been investigated लिये अन्य diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing glucose production by the liver.
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug कि रै महरूम conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and is not associated with weight gain.
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the World Health संगठन मॉडल सूची of अनिवार्य दवाइयाँ ( the other being glibenclamide ).
When prescribed appropriately, metformin कल्याणकारी few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the most common is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the रक्त ) can be a गंभीर चिंता in overdose and when it is prescribed to people with contraindications, but otherwise, there is no significant risk.
First synthesized और मिला to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s, metformin was forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce blood sugar levels in people, and in 1957, French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a उपचार लिये diabetes.
It was introduced to the United Kingdom in 1958, Canada in 1972, and the संयुक्त राज्य in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone, more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near keystone, दक्षिण Dakota, in the United States.
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son, lincoln borglum, माउंट rushmore सुविधाएँ sculptures of the heads of four United States presidents : George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.
The संपूर्ण memorial covers and is above sea level.
The tallest पहाड़ in the प्रदेश is Harney Peak ( ).
South डकोटा इतिहासकार दोने रॉबिन्सन is credited with conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of famous people into the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region.
Robinson 's initial idea was to sculpt the Needles ; however, Gutzon Borglum अस्वीकृत the needles site because of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location, which also has the advantage of facing southeast लिये अधिकतम सूर्य exposure.
रॉबिन्सन wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark, Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the sculpture should have a more national focus, and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing federal funding, construction on the memorial began in 1927, और the राष्ट्रपतियों ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939.
upon gutzon borglum 's death in March 1941, his son Lincoln Borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for each president to be depicted from head to waist, lack of funding मजबूर निर्माण to समाप्त in लेट October 1941.
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the मेमोरियल in 1933, while it was still under construction, and has managed the memorial to the present day.
It attracts nearly three million people annually.
Charvet पोशाक कमीज़ इससे the 1930s, Norsk Folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up कमीज़ is a परिधान साथ a collar, a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem, and sleeves with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly used by मेन, since women usually wear blouses.
The front opening is fastened using buttons or studs, और the cuffs बंद with buttons or cuff links.
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth, and are often accompanied by a jacket and tie, for उदाहरण with a suit or formalwear, but shirts are also worn more casually.
In British English, dress shirt means specifically the more formal evening garment worn with black- or white- tie, also discussed below.
Some of ये औपचारिक shirts have stiff fronts and detachable collars attached with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in गलती to लागू to सब शर्ट ( with or without buttoned down collars ), being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
प्रशासनिक पेशेवर दिन ( भी ज्ञात as secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in अप्रैल ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the first Friday in May
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ blasting
धमाका furnace
चट्टान blasting
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the classical French Baroque style, although he spent most of his working life in Rome.
His work is characterized by clarity, logic, and order, and favors line over color.
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for such classically oriented artists as jacques-louis दाउद, jean-auguste-dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne.
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere, except for a short period when Cardinal Richelieu ordered him back to France to serve as First Painter to the King.
Most of his works are history paintings of religious or mythological subjects that very often have a विशाल लैंडस्केप element.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin, Colin ( 1995 ). - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music. - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone पर्यटक : संगीतकारों. - नई यॉर्क : जेब किताबे. - p.395. - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks, Jack. - `` Singer Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs, Love in Home Town ''. - The Kentucky Post. - September 25, 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 ''. - Lexington Herald-Leader. - May 10, 1989.——Hurst, Jack. - `` Whitley 's Last Days ''. - Chicago Tribune. - May 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley ''. - United Press International. - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989, but he continues to influence an entire पीढी of गायकों and songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts, including five consecutive Number Ones : `` Do n't Close Your आँखें ``, `` जब तुम कह nothing at सब ``, `` i 'm no अजनबी to the बरसात ``, `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
Statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
A statute is a formal लिखा enactment of a legislative authority that governs a state, city, or county.
Typically, statutes command or prohibit कुछ, or declare policy.
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative bodies from case law, decided by न्यायालयों, और regulations issued by government agencies.
Statutes are sometimes referred to as legislation or `` black letter law. ''
As a source of law, statutes are considered primary प्राधिकार ( as opposed to secondary authority ).
Ideally all statutes जरूर be in सामंजस्य साथ the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ).
This word is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the common law.
Statutes acquire their force from the time of their ड्योढ़ी, however जबतक वरना provided.
Statutes are of several kinds ; namely, Public or private.
Declaratory or remedial.
Temporary or perpetual.
A अस्थाई statute is one which is limited in its duration at the time of its enactment.
It continues in फ़ोर्स जबतक the time of its limitation has expired, unless sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of which there is no limited time, although it may not be expressly घोषित to be so.
If, however, a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another which is temporary only, the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter.
Before a statute becomes law in some countries, it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the government, and finally published as part of a code.
In अनेक देशों, statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or `` codified '' ) within publications called codes, such as the United States Code.
In many nations statutory विधि is विशिष्ट from and subordinate to constitutional law.
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off the common iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
They proceed anterior and inferior along the medial border of the psoas major muscles.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal ligament about one third laterally from the insertion point of the वंक्षण स्नायु on the जननांग tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is usually the धमनी प्रयुक्त to संलग्न the renal artery to the recipient of a kidney transplant.
Steam is a डिजिटल वितरण, डिजिटल अधिकारों management, multiplayer and communications platform developed by Valve Corporation.
It is used to distribute games and related media ऑनलाइन, इससे छोटी स्वतंत्र developers to larger software houses ; in October 2012, Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software.
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of software across multiple computers, community features such as friends lists and समूह, बादल छायांकन, और in-game आवाज़ and chat functionality.
The software provides a freely available application programming interface, Steamworks, that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software products, including copy protection, networking and matchmaking, in-game achievements and micro-transactions, and support for user-created content through Steam Workshop.
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows, the client has विस्तारित to शामिल os x और लिनक्स संस्करण, and clients with limited functionality on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices.
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software, Valve has created a version of Steam with altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software, including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 खेल उपलब्धियाँ through भाप, and 54 million active user accounts.
As of January 2013, भाप रै देखी over 6.6 million concurrent players.
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the digital distribution market for video games.
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank और लाठी इससे the walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive.
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an American comedian, actor, singer, film निर्माता, screenwriter and film director.
He is known for his slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी, television, stage and radio.
He was originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946, forming the famed comedy team of मार्टिन और लुईस.
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work, they starred in a कामयाब series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures.
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman for the Muscular Dystrophy संघ ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements from The American Comedy पुरस्कार, Los Angeles Film Critics Association, and Venice Film Festival, and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2005, he received the Governors Award of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences फलक of Governors, which is the highest Emmy Award presented.
On February 22, 2009, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt humanitarian Award.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into the North Sea coast in the Netherlands and is the twelfth longest river in Europe, at about, with an average निर्वहन of more than.
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the northern inland frontier of the Roman Empire and, since those days, the Rhine has been a vital और navigable जलमार्ग carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has also served as a defensive feature और रै been the basis for regional and international borders.
The many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine testify to its importance as a जलमार्ग.
River traffic could be stopped at these locations, usually for the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state that controlled that portion of the river.
Sri ( सिंहली )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री, IAST ; Śrī ), also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin, used in the Indian subcontinent as polite form of address equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken भाषा, or as a शीर्षक of veneration लिये deities ( प्रायः translated as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the International Space Station needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including works like roads, पुलों, नहरों, dams, और buildings.
Civil अभियान्त्रिकी is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering, and it was defined to distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, geodesy, control engineering, structural engineering, biomechanics, nanotechnology, transportation engineering, earth science, atmospheric sciences, forensic engineering, municipal or urban अभियान्त्रिकी, जल संसाधन engineering, materials engineering, coastal engineering, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the पब्लिक सेक्टर इससे नगरपालिका through to national governments, and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies.
Katherine Dunham in तीव्र Revue
कैथरीन Dunham in Studio
कैथरीन dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review, Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine dunham wearing dance costume
Katherine Dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – may 21, 2006 ) was an American dancer, choreographer, author, educator, and social activist.
Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and European theater of the 20th century, and निर्देशित उसके अपना नृत्य कम्पनी for many years.
She has been called the `` matriarch and महारानी माँ of black dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin अमेरिका and was widely popular in the United States, where the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great ''.
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance कम्पनी, the तभी self-supported अमरीकी black dance troupe at that time, and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
dunham was an innovator in African-American modern dance as well as a leader in the field of dance anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly पुकारा peat मॉस due to its prevalence in wet habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
sphagnum accumulations can स्टोर जल, चूंकि both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside their cells ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species.
The खाली कोशिकाएं सहायता retain water in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can slowly spread into drier शर्तें, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants, including sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids and carnivorous plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic compounds अंतःस्थापित in the moss 's cell walls.
In addition, bogs, like all wetlands, develop anaerobic soil conditions, which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic सूक्ष्मजैविक कार्रवाई.
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings by taking up cations, such as कैल्सियम और मैग्नीशियम, and releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the right conditions, peat can accumulate to a depth of many मीटर.
Different प्रजाति of sphagnum have अलग सहिष्णुता हद for flooding and pH, so any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem, with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of दो or तीन spreading branches and two to four hanging branches.
The top of the plant, or capitulum, has compact clusters of यंग branches.
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various shapes, named स्टेम पत्ते ; the आकार varies according to species.
The leaves consist of two kinds of कोशिकाएं ; small, green, living cells ( chlorophyllose cells ), and large, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
The latter have the large water-holding capacity.
The earliest version of the Network Card, issued manually बल्कि than through an aptis machine.
The first aptis संस्करण of the Network Card.
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s, as stocks had to be used up despite the परिचय of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
The introduction of the weekday न्यूनतम किराया कंडीशन in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
This version is स्टिल in उपयोग as of 2007.
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल, upon the creation of their Network SouthEast area around London, England.
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by rail by offering discounts for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares.
The range of discounts available, and the price of the card, have varied since that time, but the card has सदा been valid for a year 's unlimited use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent, by completing an application form - no photographic identification or other documentation is needed to buy or use the card.
It is one of a number of concessionary fare schemes available on the British railway system.
The United Nations ( UN ; French : संगठन देस राष्ट्र unies, onu ) is the world 's largest, foremost, and most prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र शामिल promoting और facilitating cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights, civil rights, civil liberties, political freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations, to रोकें युद्धों between देशों, और to provide a platform for dialogue.
It contains multiple subsidiary संगठन to carry out its missions.
At its founding, the UN had 51 member states ; as of 2011, there are 193.
इससे इसके कार्यालयों around the world, the UN and its specialized agencies decide on substantive and administrative issues in regular meetings held throughout the year.
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international economic and social cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies, information, and facilities needed by the UN ) ; the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अदालत of इंसाफ ( the प्राथमिक न्यायिक अंग ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent UN System agencies include the World Health Organization ( जो ), the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of Secretary-General which has been held by Ban Ki-moon of दक्षिण कोरियाई since 2007.
The United Nations Headquarters resides in international territory in New York City, with further main कार्यालयों at जेनेवा, नैरोबी, और वियना.
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states, और रै छह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अरबी, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a पड़ोस in the नगर of Miami Beach, Florida, United States, located due east of Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean.
The area encompasses all of the barrier islands of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, thanks to the development efforts of Carl G. Fisher, the Lummus Brothers, and जॉन S. कॉलिन्स, the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has gone through numerous artificial and natural changes over the years, including a booming regional economy, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, जिससे नष्ट much of the क्षेत्रफल.
As of 2010, परिचय 39,186 residents live in South Beach.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon, while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election बाद सेवारत the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in जिससे सब fifty of the current United States participated.
A number of factors explain क्यों the चुनाव was so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes निक्सन gained among protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched निक्सन 's.
In the end, Nixon 's emphasis on उसके अनुभव carried little weight, and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination, secure endorsements, and, with the aid of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to मिलेंगी आउट the vote in the big cities.
he relied on कार्यशील mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president, a phenomenon that has महरूम दोहराया एकबार, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
A poster for a c. 1884 American production of Macbeth, starring Thomas W. Keene.
Depicted, counter clockwise from top-left, are : Macbeth and Banquo meet the witches ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels macduff ; और मैकबेथ.
Macbeth is a play written by William शेक्सपियर.
It is considered one of his darkest और सबसे powerful tragedies.
Set in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक प्रभाव produced when its protagonist, the Scottish lord Macbeth, chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power.
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent with a reign of murderous terror to रहो in शक्ति, आखिरकार plunging the country into civil war.
In the end, he loses everything कि देता अर्थ और purpose to his life before losing his life itself.
The play is believed to have been written between 1603 and 1607, and is most commonly दिनाँक 1606.
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably शेक्सपियर 's खेल is अप्रैल 1611, when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
it थी पहला published in the Folio of 1623, possibly from a prompt book.
It was most likely written during the reign of James I, who had been James VI of Scotland before he succeeded to the अंग्रेज़ी सिंहासन in 1603.
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company, and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s शासनकाल, Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, and tells the story of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland.
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by his wife, Macbeth murders King Duncan और takes the throne for himself.
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia, और he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and Lady Macbeth into realms of arrogance, madness, and death.
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of किंग मैकबेथ of Scotland, Macduff, and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ), a history of England, Scotland and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare and his contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of theatre, some believe that the play is cursed, और होगा नहीं जिक्र इसके title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of अनेक सदियां, the खेल रै attracted some of the most renowned actors to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
It has महरूम adapted to film, television, opera, novels, comic books, and other media.
The Milton Hershey School is a निजी philanthropic ( pre-K through 12 ) boarding school in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School, the institution was founded and funded by chocolate industrialist Milton Snavely Hershey and his wife, Catherine Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally स्थापित for impoverished, healthy, Caucasian, male orphans, while today it serves students of various backgrounds.
The Milton Hershey School Trust, which funds the school, owns controlling interest in The Hershey Company and owns the Hershey entertainment और रिसॉर्ट कम्पनी ( herco ) जिससे oversees अनेक of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six अरब dollars in assets, the Milton Hershey School is one of the wealthiest schools in the world.
The स्कूल is overseen by a Board of Managers.
The school currently serves 1,818 students, and plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A member of कोर : गठबन्धन लिये आवासीय Education, it is the largest residential education program in the US.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free and खोलें e-book standard
Electronic article, articles in scholarly journals or magazines that can be accessed via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक हस्तांतरण
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और वितरण of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications लिये a पदार्थ to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the विभिन्न schedules, हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Second-language acquisition or second-language learning is the प्रक्रम by जिससे लोगों सीख a दूसरी language.
Second-language acquisition ( often abbreviated to sla ) भी refers to the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process.
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is named second-language अधिग्रहण, it can also incorporate the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent languages.
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it does not refer to practices in भाषा शिक्षण.
The academic discipline of second-language अधिग्रहण is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics.
It is broad-based and relatively new.
As well as the various branches of linguistics, second-language अधिग्रहण is also closely related to psychology, cognitive psychology, and education.
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself, the terms second-language अधिग्रहण शोध, second-language अध्ययन, और second-language acquisition studies are also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field, and because of this it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting date.
However, it does appear to have developed a great deal since the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning प्रक्रम, but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous.
second-language अधिग्रहण can incorporate heritage language learning, but it does not usually incorporate bilingualism.
Most sla शोधकर्ताओं देखिए bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language, not the process itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in fields ऐसे as शिक्षा और मनोविज्ञान, however, often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather, the learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages involve the same fundamental processes in अलग situations..
There has been much debate about exactly how language is सीखे, और अनेक issues are still unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language अधिग्रहण, लकिन none are accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers.
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of second-language acquisition, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable भविष्य.
Forbes list of billionaires is an annual ranking of the world 's wealthiest लोगों, compiled और प्रकाशित by Forbes, an American national business magazine.
The total net worth of each individual on the list is estimated, in United States dollars, based on their एसेट और हिसाब लिये कर्ज़.
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a single day, due to daily fluctuations among एक्सचेंज दरों and stock valuations.
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law enforcement एजेंसी कि is भाग of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn members are divided among the Special Agents and the Uniformed प्रभाग.
Until March 1, 2003, the Service was part of the United राज्य Department of the Treasury.
The U.S. Secret Service has two distinct क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering मिशन ऐसे as रोकथाम and investigation of counterfeiting of U.S. currency and U.S. treasury securities, and investigation of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families, such as the President, past presidents, vice presidents, presidential candidates, visiting heads of राज्य, और विदेशी embassies ( प्रति an अनुबंध with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
The Secret सेवा 's आरंभिक जिम्मेदारी was to investigate counterfeiting of U.S. currency, which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
The एजेंसी तब विकसित into the United States ' first domestic intelligence and counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ( atf ), आव्रजन और कस्टम Enforcement ( ICE ), and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` Me और bobby McGee '' is a song written by Kris Kristofferson and Fred Foster, originally performed by Roger Miller.
अन्य performed the सोंग बाद, सहित kristofferson खुद, and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death, making the song the second posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart history after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, अग्रणी the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932, as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign थीम, fdr पराजित लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
सक्रिय by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, जिससे began कूच 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933, and Social Security, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, साथ the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी, fdr gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make अमेरिका the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi जर्मनी साथ Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, calling it a `` date जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war रणनीति on दो fronts कि ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of people moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
रूज़वेल्ट वर्चस्व the American political scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big city machines, श्वेत ethnics, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी and rural white Southerners.
He also influenced the later creation of the United राष्ट्र and Bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by विद्वानों as one of the top three U.S. Presidents, along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his वैचारिक position as `` a little left of center. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, Mara, and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in लॉस एंजिल्स और रै स्प्रेड to अन्य भाग of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America.
The majority of the गिरोह is ethnically composed of Central Americans and active in urban and suburban areas.
In the U.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax County, Virginia, Montgomery County, Maryland, and Prince George 's County, Maryland ; Long Island, New York ; the Boston, Massachusetts area ; Charlotte, North Carolina ; and Houston, Texas.
There is also a presence of MS-13 in Toronto, ओंटारियो, Canada.
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the body and also often the face, as well as the use of their own sign language.
They are notorious for their use of violence and a subcultural moral कोड कि predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
This cruelty of the distinguished members of the `` Maras '' or `` Mareros '' earned them a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the संयुक्त राज्य border.
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of रखवाले आरपार the देश.
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the Fox संजाल in the United States on September 13, 2005.
The show is based on forensic anthropology और forensic पुरातत्व, साथ प्रत्येक episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ).
The rest of the प्रमुख डाल शामिल Michaela Conlin, T. J. Thyne, Eric Millegan, Tamara Taylor, Jonathan Adams, and John Francis Daley.
Created by Hart Hanson, the श्रेणी is बहुत loosely आधारित on the life and writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs, who also produces the show.
Its title character, Temperance Brennan, is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel श्रेणी.
Conversely, Dr. Brennan writes कामयाब रहस्य novels आधारित around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs.
Bones is a joint उत्पादन by Josephson Entertainment, Far Field Productions and 20th Century Fox Television.
The series has समाप्त airing its eighth season and has been renewed for a ninth season.
Super कटोरी xxv थी an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season.
The Giants defeated the Bills by the स्कोर of 20–19, winning their second ever Super Bowl.
It is the only Super Bowl decided by one point.
The game was held at Tampa Stadium in tampa, Florida, on January 27, 1991, during the height of the Gulf War.
It was thus played under much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 13-3 रिकार्ड, और अग्रणी the लीग in कुल अंक scored with 428.
In advancing to their second Super Bowl, the Giants also posted a 13-3 नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड, लकिन साथ a ball-control ठोकर और a defense that allowed a league low 211 points.
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt जिससे गई wide right of the uprights, leading to a Giants victory, and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
The Giants set a Super Bowl record पकड़कर कब्ज़ा of the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, and बना a 75-yard touchdown drive that consumed a Super Bowl record 9:29 off the clock.
Giants running back Ottis Anderson, who carried the बॉल 21 टाइम्स for 102 yards and one touchdown, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He was the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete rozelle ट्रॉफी '' ( named for the former commissioner ).
एंडरसन भी recorded one reception for seven yards.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ), was an African-American मुस्लिम minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black अमेरिकी.
Detractors अभियुक्त उसे of उपदेश racism, black supremacy, and violence.
He has been called one of the greatest और सबसे influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he was young, and at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother was placed in a mental hospital, and he was placed in a series of फोस्टर homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for तोड़कर and entering.
In prison, Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his पैरोल in 1952, he जल्दी रोज़ to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group, but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in अफ़्रीकी और the मध्य East, he returned to the United States, where he founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam, he थी assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs बदला substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it, `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ civil rights leaders, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
The तीसरा ऋतु of 90210, an American television series, premiered on Monday September 13, 2010.
The CW officially renewed the show for a तीसरा ऋतु on फ़रवरी 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 अनुसूची, वे घोषित उनके decision to move 90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip Girl.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 and was मिले साथ generally धनात्मक reviews from critics.
The season picks up at the end of summer और focuses on the students senior year of high school.
It follows adrianna 's वृद्धि to कीर्ति, a new relationship between Silver and Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to reveal to his family and friends he is gay.
It also deals with the aftermath of नाओमी Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes, ट्रिस्टन wilds, AnnaLynne McCord, Ryan Eggold, Jessica Stroup, Michael Steger, Jessica Lowndes, Matt Lanter, Gillian Zinser, Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair continued her role as कार्यपालिका producer for the season.
The season premiered to 1.96 लाख दर्शक and a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic.
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '', hit season highs in all key demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34, a 1.4 in वयस्कों 18–34 और a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It was also the most watched episode in over a year with 2.2 million viewers tuning in.
The season finale aired on May 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 million live viewers और a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating.
It was released on DVD in the United States on August 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories and dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the गिरिजाघर of England and, in some of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा और संत Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया has reigned longer at over 63 years.
एलिज़ाबेथ was born in London and educated privately at home.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward viii, इससे which time she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, in which she served in the Auxiliary territorial सेवा.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children : चार्ल्स, ऐनी, एंड्रयू, और Edward.
उसके राजतिलक service took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the कनाडाई constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her चांदी, सुनहरी, और डायमंड jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the Falklands War, wars with Iraq and the युद्ध in अफगानिस्तान.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal family and republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in फ्लोरिडा took प्लेस on नवम्बर 2, 2010 along with other elections to the United States Senate in other states as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections.
रिपब्लिकन मार्को rubio, पूर्व स्पीकर of the Florida House of Representatives, defeated independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race.
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected in a very close race विरूद्ध डेमोक्रेट Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on December 2, 2008 that he would not seek re-election to the Senate, and would resign prior to the समाप्त of his term.
In August 2009, Governor Charlie Crist announced that he would appoint his पूर्व Chief of Staff, George LeMieux, a Republican, to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez.
Governor Crist सरेआम घोषित he was running for the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he received many Republican endorsements, such as the National Republican Senatorial कमेटी, मार्टिनेज, और the 2008 रिपब्लिकन presidential nominee John McCain.
His support of the American Recovery and reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives, and candidate Marco Rubio surged.
In April 2010 crist घोषित he होता drop out of the Republican primary and run as an independent.
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of Crist and demanded a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign.
Congressman Kendrick Meek was the first डेमोक्रेट to declare his intention to run.
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the Libertarian Party on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history.
Satellite दृश्य of Doha
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the state of Qatar.
Located on the coast of the पारसी गल्फ,
it था a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is also one of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is Qatar 's largest city, with over 60 % of the nation 's population residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs, and is also the economic centre of the country.
Doha also serves as the seat of सरकारी of क़तर, which is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani.
Doha is home to the Education City, an area devoted to शोध and education.
Doha थी the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian Games, which was the largest Asian Games ever held.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the games at the 2011 afc Asian Cup.
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and will host a large number of the venues लिये the 2022 फीफा संसार Cup.
The World Petroleum Council held the 20th संसार पेट्रोलियम Conference in Doha in December 2011.
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal गुहा ( ऊर्ध्वहनु साइनस ), above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ), between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ), and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The sinuses are named for the facial bones in which they हैं स्तिथ.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of संसाधन लिये कोई लक्ष्य अन्य than the सृष्टि of मान लिये the end customer to be wasteful, and thus a target for elimination.
Working इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the ग्राहक who consumes a product or service, `` value '' is defined as any action or process that a customer would be willing to pay for.
essentially, lean is centered on preserving value with less work.
Lean manufacturing is a प्रबन्धन दर्शनशास्त्र derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s.
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall customer value, but वहीँ हैं varying perspectives on कैसा this is best achieved.
The स्थिर विकास of टोयोटा, इससे a छोटी कम्पनी to the संसार 's largest automaker, रै केन्द्रित ध्यान on कैसा it रै हासिल इस कामयाबी.
icarly logo
iCarly is an अमरीकी sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon, which premiered on September 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` iPity the Nevel '', `` iDate Sam & Freddie '', etc. as specials, despite उनके होने नियमित एपीसोड.
Every episode title begins with a lower case i which represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show was nominated for an Emmy award लिये बकाया children 's Program in 2009.
The series starring Miranda Cosgrove as कार्ली शे, a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star.
The series ended on November 23, 2012 साथ the one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye ''.
A total of 7 seasons and 109 एपीसोड यहूद ब्रॉडकास्ट.
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers, साथ the खास एपीसोड `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( मिरांडा cosgrove ) और उसके sassy बेहतरीन dost Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition, tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling them.
After seeing the girls ' दमदार रसायन और banter, the online audience clamors for more and the iCarly webcast is born.
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence, Carly, Sam, and Freddie find out that they have also become online celebrities as their show – which features talent contests, recipes, problem-solving, and random dancing – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment.
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned, but their father, Steven Shay ( David Chisum ), is a U.S. Air फ़ोर्स officer temporarily stationed on a submarine, and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
Westlife were an Irish boy band which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh, the group 's final line-up consisted of nicky byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian McFadden was a member from 1998 until his departure in 2004.
westlife बेची over 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, a total that included studio albums, singles, video releases, and compilation albums.
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK इतिहास ), tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley.
वे हासिल a total of 26 top ten singles over their 14-year career.
By 2010, Westlife was listed in the गिनीज संसार Records, as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century.
They also won The Record of the Year ( the only music award based on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012, the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history.
Despite their European and Asian success, Westlife never managed to break into the u.S. मार्केट, achieving तभी एक hit सिंगल in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
In October 2011, Westlife announced their intention to split in 2012, following their Greatest Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest हिट्स album.
The boyband 's final concerts were held on 22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke पार्क Stadium in Dublin.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tickets, sold out in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened सजीव in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, जिससे शामिल रेटिनॉल, retinal, retinoic acid and several provitamin A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important.
Vitamin A रै अनेक कृत्यों, it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule, that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and रंग vision.
Vitamin A also functions in a very different भूमिका as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid, which is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells.
In foods of animal origin, the major form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small आंत.
The retinol form functions as a storage form of the vitamin, and can be परिवर्तित to और from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin a, रै तभी आंशिक विटामिन a कार्यकलाप, and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle.
Retinoic acid is used for growth and सेल्यूलर differentiation.
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid कड़ी is संलग्न, called a retinyl group.
Both संरचनात्मक सुविधाएँ are essential for vitamin activity.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl groups, which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels.
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a सिंगल retinyl group, which give them some vitamin activity.
None of the other carotenes have विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and has vitamin activity in humans.
विटामिन A can be found in two principal forms in foods :
रेटिनॉल, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance.
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a रूप of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially उत्पादित and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( सब of जिससे contain beta-ionone rings ), but no other carotenoids, function as provitamin A in herbivores and omnivore animals, which possess the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores हैं ग़रीब converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, और pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ).
Selena मारी गोमेज़ ( born जुलाई 22, 1992 ) is an American singer and actress.
She बना उसके डेब्यू as a child actress in Barney & Friends.
In 2007, Gomez आए to prominence as a starring cast member in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place.
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year, and became the founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena गोमेज़ & the Scene.
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry संघ of America ( RIAA ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``, `` Who Says ``, and `` Love You like a Love Song ``.
After the release of television films and their accompanying soundtracks, Gomez made her theatrical film debut in ramona और beezus in 2010 और स्ट्रक्चर in Monte Carlo in 2011.
upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012, she focused on her film career, serving as a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year.
Her debut solo album is tentatively scheduled to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013, और is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry, Gomez is involved in philanthropic activities through charity work and विभिन्न सोशल and environmental causes.
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an American R & b और पॉप singer-songwriter, actress, and model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the seat of सरकारी of sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the sacramento नदी और the American River in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
साथ an अनुमानित 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which includes सात काउंटी साथ an अनुमानित 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its महानगर area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the प्रयत्न of the स्विस अप्रवासी John Sutter, Sr., his son John Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of sutter 's फोर्ट, which was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सुनहरा फटाफट, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a commercial and agricultural center, and a terminus for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
Drexel University Sacramento is located in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, Davis is located in nearby डेविस, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned शोध hospital, is located in the city of Sacramento.
Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday which occurs every year on the फाइनल सोमवार of may.
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving in the United States Armed Forces.
Formerly known as Decoration Day, it originated after the American Civil War to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War.
By the 20th century Memorial दिन था महरूम विस्तारित to honor all Americans who have died in all wars.
It typically marks the प्रारंभ of the गर्मियाँ अवकाश season, while Labor Day marks its end.
Many लोगों विज़िट cemeteries and memorials, particularly to honor those who have died in military service.
Many volunteers प्लेस an American flag on each grave in national cemeteries.
By the early 20th century, Memorial Day was an occasion for more general expressions of memory, as people visited the क़ब्रों of उनके मृतक रिश्तेदारों in गिरिजाघर cemeteries, whether they had served in the military or not.
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping, family gatherings, fireworks, trips to the beach, and national media events.
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday in लेट वसन्त or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in some rural areas of the American South, notably in the mountains.
In cases involving a family graveyard जहाँ रिमोट पूर्वजो as well as those who were deceased more recently are buried, this may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles.
People gather on the designated day and put पुष्प on क़ब्रों और नवीनीकृत contacts with kinfolk and others.
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground, '' the traditional term for a potluck meal in which people used to spread the बर्तन आउट on चादरें or चौके on the grass.
It is believed that this practice began before the American Civil War and thus may reflect the real origin of the `` मेमोरियल दिन '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving, जबकि दिग्गजों दिन मनाता the सेवा of सब u.S. सैन्य veterans, living or dead.
Mt. Zion Church राज्य history marker near Philadelphia, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a campaign in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in June 1964 to attempt to register as many African American voters as possible in Mississippi, which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools, Freedom Houses, and community centers in small towns throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ), a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC, कोर, naacp और sclc ).
Most of the impetus, leadership, and financing for the Summer Project came from the SNCC.
Robert Parris Moses, SNCC field secretary and co-director of cofo, निर्देशित the summer project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a म्यूज़िक विधा कि originated in समुदायों of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues form, ubiquitous in जैज़, लय और ब्लूज़, और चट्टान and roll is characterized by specific chord progressions, of which the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the most common.
The blue notes that, for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the प्रमुख स्केल, are also an important part of the sound.
The blues genre is based on the blues form but possesses other characteristics such as specific lyrics, बास lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to शहरी ब्लूज़ कि यहूद अधिक or कम लोकप्रिय during different periods of the 20th century.
Best known are the Delta, Piedmont, जम्प, और शिकागो ब्लूज़ styles.
World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening of blues म्यूज़िक to a wider audience, especially white listeners.
In the 1960s and 1970s, a hybrid form called blues-rock evolved.
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '', meaning वेदना और sadness ; an early use of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older, it has been attested to since 1912, when Hart wand 's `` डलास Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues composition.
In lyrics the phrase is often used to describe a उदास mood.
A quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a United States dollar or 25 cents.
The quarter has been उत्पादित चूंकि 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is more common in अन्य भाग of the संसार, originated with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. two wedges, each कील an आठवीं, यूँ a क्वार्टर of the Spanish real, was a common nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout Mexico और around the संसार in other cultures.
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and मित्रों to pray for and remember friends and family members who have died.
It is विशेषकर celebrated in Mexico, where it is a national holiday, and all banks are closed.
The celebration takes place on November 1 and 2, in connection साथ the कैथोलिक छुट्टियाँ of सब संतो ' Day and All Souls ' Day.
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls, marigolds, और the favorite foods and beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts.
They also leave possessions of the deceased.
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous observances dating back hundreds of years and to an एज़टेक पर्व समर्पित to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In Brazil, Dia de Finados is a पब्लिक अवकाश कि many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches.
In Spain, there are festivals and parades, and, at the समाप्त of the day, people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in यूरोपीय, and similarly themed celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures.
अनीता Mk VIII.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark viii calculators यहूद शुभारम्भ simultaneously in late 1961 as the world 's first all- electronic desktop calculators.
Designed and built by the Bell पंच co.
in Britain, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer प्रभाग, वे used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays.
वे यहूद the पहला of a series of desktop and hand-held electronic calculators that the company was to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) थी the पहला अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution, which replaced the Articles of Confederation और स्थापित the position of President.
Washington was elected President as the unanimous choice of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, and he served two terms in office.
He oversaw the creation of a strong, well-financed national government that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in Europe, suppressed rebellion, and won स्वीकृति among Americans of all types.
His नेतृत्व style established many forms and rituals of government that have been used since, such as using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the peaceful transition from his presidency to the presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century.
Washington was hailed as `` father of उसके country `` even during his lifetime.
Washington थी born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations and slaves.
After both his father and older brother died when he was young, Washington became personally और professionally संलग्न to the powerful William Fairfax, who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier.
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the colonial forces during the first चरण of the French and Indian War.
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution, वॉशिंगटन प्रबंधित to फ़ोर्स the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City.
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of शीत, he पराजित the अंग्रेजों in two battles, retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
Because of his strategy, Revolutionary forces captured two major British armies at Saratoga in 1777 और yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of his generals, encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army, coordination with the state governors and state militia units, relations with Congress and attention to आपूर्तियाँ, लोजिस्टिक्स, और प्रशिक्षण.
In battle, however, Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by अंग्रेजों generals with larger armies.
After victory had been finalized in 1783, Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize power, proving his opposition to तानाशाही और उसके प्रतिबद्धता to American republicanism.
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution.
Elected unanimously as the first President of the United States in 1789, he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation.
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national debt, to implement an प्रभावी कर प्रणाली और to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ).
वॉशिंगटन proclaimed the संयुक्त States neutral in the wars raging in Europe after 1793.
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795, despite intense opposition from the Jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the Federalist Party, he supported its programs.
वॉशिंगटन 's विदाई पता was an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning against partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 और लौटे to his home, Mount Vernon, and his domestic life where he managed a variety of enterprises.
He freed सब his slaves by his final will.
वॉशिंगटन had a vision of a great and powerful nation that would be built on republican lines using federal power.
He sought to use the national government to preserve liberty, improve अवसंरचना, खोलें the western lands, promote commerce, found a permanent capital, reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism.
At his death, Washington was eulogized as `` first in war, first in peace, और first in the hearts of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee.
The Federalists made him the symbol of their party but for many years, the Jeffersonians continued to अविश्वास his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a colonial empire in world history, Washington became an international icon for liberation and nationalism, विशेषकर in फ़्रांस और लैटिन America.
Fiscal साल 2012 u.S. Federal Spending – Cash or Budget Basis.
फिस्कल Year 2012 U.S. Federal Receipts.
The Budget of the United States Government प्रायः begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by law to pass a budget annually and to submit the बजट passed by दोनो घरों to the President for signature.
Congressional decisions are governed by rules and legislation regarding the संघीय budget process.
बजट समितियों नियत बिता limits for the House and Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees, which then approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs.
If Congress fails to pass an annual बजट ( as रै महरूम the case since 2009 ), a series of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the President, who may चिह्न it into विधि, or may वीटो it ( as he would a budget when passed by the Congress ).
A vetoed bill is भेजा वापस to Congress, which can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber.
Congress may also combine all or some appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In addition, the president may request and the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills.
Several government agencies provide budget data and analysis.
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ), Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management and बजट ( omb ) और the u.S. राजकोष Department.
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a series of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices, while expenditures have expanded for wars, unemployment बीमे और अन्य सुरक्षा जाल बिता.
In the long-run, expenditures सम्बन्धित to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( also, Tok Pisin : Niugini, Dutch : nieuw गिनी, और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the world 's second largest island, after Greenland, covering a land area of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest प्रशांत समंदर, it झूठ geographically to the east of the Malay Archipelago, with which it is sometimes included as part of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago.
geologically it is a part of the same tectonic plate as Australia.
When world sea levels were low, the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ), combining साथ lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul, also known as Greater Australia.
The two landmasses became separated when the area now known as the Torres जलसन्धि flooded बाद the समाप्त of the पिछला glacial period.
anthropologically, New Guinea is considered part of Melanesia.
Politically, the western half of the द्वीप comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua.
The eastern half forms the mainland of the country of पापुआ New Guinea.
The island has a population of about 7.5 million, with a very low population घनत्व of तभी 8 inh/km2.
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier, flatter, और कम fertile दक्षिणी बंटवारा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, by its much higher rainfall and its active volcanic geology, with its highest point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna, with marsupials, सहित wallabies और possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
Other than bats और कुछ दो दर्जन स्वदेशी rodent genera, there are no pre-human indigenous placental mammals.
Pigs, several अतिरिक्त प्रजाति of rats, and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with human colonization.
The human presence on the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations आउट of Africa.
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent center of agriculture, with evidence of irrigation going back at least 10,000 years.
Because of the time depth of इसके inhabitation और इसके अत्यधिक fractured लैंडस्केप, an unusually high number of languages are spoken on the island, with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most are classified as Papuan languages, a generally accepted geographical पद जिससे a अल्पसंख्यक of authors hold to be a genetic one.
A number of Austronesian भाषाएं हैं spoken on the coast and on offshore islands.
In the 16th century Spanish explorers खोजा the द्वीप और called it Nueva Guinea.
In recent history western New Guinea was included in the Dutch ईस्ट इंडीज colony.
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the island as German New Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial power, whilst the south eastern portion was अनिच्छा claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing the British claim, named the Territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the द्वीप was granted independence from Australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975.
The western half gained independence from the डच in 1961, लकिन became part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances.
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom Seinfeld, and name of a fictional New York street gang.
Their sign is crossing the हैंड्स, साथ एक hand with all the fingers 'up ' and spread out.
The अन्य हाथ रै सब लकिन the thumb and pointer finger up, for a total of eight ( 8 ).
The gang is named for the 8th President of the United States, Martin Van Buren ( who was the first अध्यक्ष from New York ).
This was the 14th एपीसोड for the 8th season.
It aired on February 6, 1997.
bevo sign
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or near beer, brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of prohibition, when बियर, वाइन और आसुत liquors, were made illegal for thirteen years.
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic पेय were prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces.
उत्पादन रोज़ greatly साथ नेशनल निषेध in 1919, और bevo थी by दूर the सबसे लोकप्रिय of the अनेक `` खाद्यान्न पेय '' or `` निकट beers '' of the समय.
At the peak of its popularity in the early 1920s, more than five लाख मामले of Bevo were sold annually.
Renard with a mug of Bevo, चित्रित in टेरा cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building, St. Louis
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` Bevo the पेय ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage '' and the Slavic भाषा शब्द लिये बियर `` pivo '', और थी सुनाया `` Bee-vo ''.
Some bevo विज्ञापन featured the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the protagonist of a medieval French folk-tale ), and promotional mugs with this character were manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied गाड़ियाँ in इसके St. Louis shops called the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for promotion.
Seven are believed to have महरूम निर्मित on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving example was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
Billboard advertising Bevo in trenton, नई जर्सी, 1917
A contemporary advertisement read `` Cooling and invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the case from your grocer, druggist, or डीलर. ''
The paper label on the back of the bottle read `` The all-year-round नरम पेय.
Appetizing - healthful - Nutritious - Refreshing.
Milk or water may contain bacteria.
BEVO never करता. ''
Bevo became part of the popular culture of the time, and is mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to secondary slang uses of the word ; for example, in American military slang a young and inexperienced officer थी पुकारा a `` Bevo ''.
The University of Texas नामित इसके शुभंकर `` Bevo '', a name which has stuck to this day.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the पेय, `` तुम Ca n't Stay Up on Bevo '', in his 1917 army revue, Yip Yip Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer और liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, cut into Bevo 's marketshare.
साथ बिक्री flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, Anheuser-Busch stopped production.
The Bevo मिल, st. Louis, in 2008
The bevo भवन, साथ the renard अक्षर prominently प्रदर्शित at the किनारे, स्टिल operates as a bottling सुविधा at उनके प्रमुख ब्रेवरी in st. लुई, मिसौरी.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by August Anheuser बुच, sr. in 1917.
It was closed in 2009, but it reopened in अक्तूबर 2009 under new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the short story `` The Killers `` by Ernest Hemingway ; as खूब as in babbitt by sinclair लुईस.
Mylanta is an over the counter medication used for the treatment of acid reflux, heartburn, और gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ).
Foremilk and Hindmilk नमूने of human breast milk
A glass of pasteurized गाय milk
Milk is a white द्रव उत्पादित by the mammary glands of mammals.
It is the primary source of nutrition for young स्तनधारियों पहले वे हैं able to digest other types of food.
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the रिस्क of many diseases in the baby.
It also contains अनेक other nutrients.
As an agricultural product, milk is extracted from mammals and प्रयुक्त as खाना लिये इंसानो.
Worldwide, दुग्ध खेतो produced about 730 million tonnes of milk in 2011.
India is the world 's largest producer and consumer of मिल्क, yet neither exports nor imports milk.
New Zealand, the European Union 's 27 member states, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और the United States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products.
China and Russia are the world 's largest importers of milk and milk products.
Throughout the world, there are more than 6 billion consumers of मिल्क और milk products.
Over 750 million people live within dairy farming households.
Milk is a key contributor to improving पोषण और खाना सुरक्षा particularly in developing countries.
Improvements in livestock and dairy technology offer significant वादा in reducing गरीबी और कुपोषण in the world.
Motorcycle speedway, usually referred to as स्पीडवे, is a motorcycle sport involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and रेसिंग takes प्लेस on a चपटा ओवल track usually consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use इस सतह to स्लाइड उनके machines sideways, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight sections of the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing being practised in the USA before the First World War and in ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the लेट 1910s and early 1920s.
There are now both domestic and international competitions in a number of countries including the स्पीडवे संसार कप whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
Speedway is popular in central and northern Europe and to a lesser extent in Australia and North America.
A variant of track racing, स्पीडवे is administered internationally by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
घरेलू स्पीडवे कार्यक्रम are regulated by FIM affiliated national motor sport federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate.
In humans, the most important related यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं vitamin D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is not actually an essential dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their diet. )
An organic रासायनिक यौगिक ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin D थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called विटामिन, in the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of सीरम स्तर प्रतिबिंबित endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet, and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The प्रमाण indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume कि no संश्लेषण occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि is measured in सीरम to determine a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the proliferation, differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health effects of विटामिन d supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग महिलाओं.
The duramax is a सामान्य मोटर्स diesel engine family for light- and medium duty trucks, designed by Isuzu.
the 6.6-liter duramax is उत्पादित by DMAX, a joint venture between GM and Isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
This engine was initially संस्थापित in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks and has been an option since then in pickups, vans, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, उत्पादन at moraine was reportedly limited to approximately 200,000 engines per year.
On May 9, 2007, DMAX घोषित the production of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility.
duramax LML
balto.
is also a traditional written abbreviation for बाल्टीमोर, Maryland.
Statue of Balto in Central पार्क ( नई York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the फाइनल लेग of the 1925 सीरम चलाएं to nome, in जिससे डिप्थीरिया antitoxin थी transported इससे anchorage, Alaska, to Nenana, Alaska, by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease.
The run is commemorated by the annual iditarod ट्रेल sled Dog Race.
Balto was named after the सामी एक्सप्लोरर Samuel Balto.
Balto died at the आयु of 14.
प्राध्यापक Stephen Hawking, known for being a theoretical physicist, has appeared in many works of popular culture.
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder version of the bluebird, and was spun into its own line in 1981, having been made continuously since then.
the `` उच्चिष्ट '' नाम was applied gradually, beginning in 1981.
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama, Japan, until the current North American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
The `` Maxima '' has also been applied to cefiros और चलेगा in various markets.
Propolis as hive sealing
Propolis is a resinous मिश्रण कि honey bees collect from tree buds, sap flows, or other botanical sources.
It is used as a sealant for unwanted open स्पेसेस in the hive.
Propolis is used for small gaps ( approximately or less ), while larger spaces are प्रायः filled with beeswax.
Its color varies depending on its botanical source, the most common being dark भूरा.
propolis is sticky at and above room temperature,.
At lower temperatures, it becomes hard and very brittle.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26, 1948 ) is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, best known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based rock band Aerosmith, in which he also plays the harmonica, और occasional piano and percussion.
He is ज्ञात as the `` राक्षस of Screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range.
He is also ज्ञात लिये उसके on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy performances, he usually dresses in bright, रंगीन outfits with his trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith, which released such milestone hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Tyler had a heavy ड्रग और दारू व्यसन, and the band 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently कायम गम्भीरता for over 20 years, but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s, for which he successfully received treatment in 2009.
After एरोस्मिथ शुभारम्भ a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent Vacation, Pump, and Get a Grip, Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music, film और tv भूमिकाएँ ( सहित as a न्यायधीश on अमरीकी आइडल ), authoring a bestselling book, and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
However, he has continued to record music and perform with Aerosmith, बाद अधिक than 43 years in the band.
The band 's latest album, Music from another Dimension !
, was released on November 6, 2012.
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Singers.
he थी भी क्रमित 3rd on Hit Parader 's Top 100 Metal Vocalists of All Time.
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with Aerosmith, and he थी the प्रस्तुतकर्ता when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ascap संस्थापकों Award and will also be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
The liver produces urea in the urea cycle as a waste product of the पाचन of protein.
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
Individual laboratories may have different reference ranges, and this is because the कार्यविधि may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born फ़रवरी 2, 1940 ) is a former American football coach and college and professional football player who was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 wins and 71 नुकसान हैं प्रत्येक the सबसे for a head coach in team history.
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 israeli उच्चारण ), भी ज्ञात as the Jewish people, are a nation and an ethnoreligious group, originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East.
The यहूदी ethnicity, nationality, and religion are strongly interrelated, as Judaism is the traditional faith of the Jewish nation.
Converts to Judaism, whose status as Jews within the यहूदी ethnos is बराबर to those born into it, have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
In Jewish tradition, Jewish ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE.
The modern State of Israel was established as a Jewish nation-state, और defines itself as such in its Basic Laws.
Its Law of Return grants the right of नागरिकता to कोई jew जो requests it.
Israel is the only country where Jews are a majority of the जनसांख्यिकी.
Jews also enjoyed political autonomy twice पहले in ancient history.
The first of these periods lasted इससे 1350 to 586 bce, and encompassed the periods of the Judges, the United Monarchy, and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, ending with the destruction of the First Temple.
The दूसरी थी the काल of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning from 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the विनाश of the First Temple, most Jews have lived in diaspora.
A minority in every country in which they live ( except Israel ), they have frequently अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The world Jewish population reached a peak of 15 million prior to the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, but six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust.
Since then the जनसांख्यिकी रै risen again और, थी अनुमानित at 13.4 लाख by the उत्तर American Jewish Data Bank, or less than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
According to this report, about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), and 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 लाख ), with most of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those who consider themselves Jews, whether or not they are affiliated with a Jewish organization.
The total world Jewish population, however, is difficult to measure.
In addition to issues with census methodology, there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a Jew and secular, political, and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably.
Corpus christi procession.
आयल on canvas by Carl Emil Doepler.
कॉर्पस Domini redirects here.
For other उपयोग देखिए Corpus Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ), also known as Corpus Domini, is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and रक्त of यीशु मसीह and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
it emphasizes the आनन्द of the संस्था of the Eucharist, which was observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of The Most पावन Body and Blood of Christ.
It is भी मनाये in some Anglican, Lutheran, and Old Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday or, `` where the Solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation, it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day ''.
At the end of Holy Mass, there is often a procession of the धन्य sacrament, generally displayed in a monstrance.
The procession is followed by Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each year in Rome, where it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major, where it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a प्रोटीन found in the blood, the levels of which rise in response to inflammation ( i.e. C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and some types of bacteria ) in order to activate the पूरक system via the C1Q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the जिगर in जवाब to factors released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a member of the pentraxin family of proteins.
It is नहीं सम्बन्धित to C-peptide or protein C.
C-reactive protein was the first pattern मान्यता receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
The start of the व्यवस्थित यूरोपीय colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed for India to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas.
यूरोपीय conquest, large-scale exploration and colonization soon followed.
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many internal wars and was slowly recovering from the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic plague caused, the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first expeditions occurred along the Caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola, Puerto Rico and Cuba, and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America.
In 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of England, John Cabot landed on the North American coast, and a year later, कोलंबस 's third voyage reached the South American coast.
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America, on a number of Caribbean islands, and in South America.
Portugal colonized Brazil.
Eventually, the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control of European governments, leading to profound changes to its landscape, population, and plant and animal life.
In the 19th century alone over 50 million people left Europe for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is known as the period of the columbian Exchange.
Keith Richards ( born 18 दिसम्बर 1943 ) is an English musician, singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones.
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had created `` rock 's greatest single body of riffs '', ranking him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the रोलिंग पत्थरों ' सीसे vocalist Mick Jagger are listed among Rolling Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin.
Testosterone is a स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन from the androgen group and is found in mammals, reptiles, birds, and other vertebrates.
In mammals, testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of females, although small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the principal पुरूष sex hormone and an anabolic steroid.
In men, testosterone plays a key role in the development of male reproductive tissues ऐसे as the testis और प्रोस्टेट as well as promoting secondary sexual characteristics such as increased muscle, bone mass, and the growth of body hair.
in जोड, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is essential for health and well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis.
On average, in adult human males, the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult human females ' plasma, but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men.
Females also are more संवेदनशील to the hormone.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is observed in most vertebrates.
मछली make a slightly different form called 11-ketotestosterone.
Its counterpart in कीट is ecdysone.
These ubiquitous steroids suggest कि sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling तकनीक प्रयुक्त when `` natural '' but relatively homogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population.
It is often used in marketing शोध.
In this technique, the total population is divided into these groups ( or clusters ) and a simple random नमूना of the समूह is selected.
Then the required information is collected from a simple random sample of the तत्व within each selected group.
This may be done for every element in these groups or a subsample of तत्व may be चयनित भीतर each of these groups.
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the कुल क्रमांक of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy.
Assuming a fixed sample size, the technique gives more accurate results when most of the विभिन्नता in the जनसांख्यिकी is भीतर the groups, not between them.
Jamestown is a कस्बा in Guilford County, North Carolina, United States, and is a suburb of the nearby cities of Greensboro and High Point.
The population was 3,382 at the 2010 census.
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an actress और मॉडल साथ डुअल American and Israeli citizenship.
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film, but mainstream success आए जब वो थी डाल as padmé amidala in the स्टार Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, she नामांकित at Harvard University to study psychology while still working as an actress.
She समाप्त her bachelor 's degree in 2003.
In 2001, Portman opened in New यॉर्क नगर 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won the Golden Globe पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a शनि पुरस्कार लिये Best Actress for her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ).
She played leading roles in the historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, she served as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice International Film Festival 's shorts competition in 2008.
पोर्टमैन directed a segment of the collective film New York, I Love You.
In 2011, Portman won the अकादमी पुरस्कार, the सुनहरी ग्लोब Award, the BAFTA Award, the Screen Actors Guild Award, and the Independent Spirit Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan.
Copper is a chemical element with the symbol Cu ( from ) और परमाणु number 29.
It is a ductile मेटल साथ बहुत high thermal and electrical conductivity.
Pure copper is soft and malleable ; a freshly exposed surface रै a reddish-orange color.
It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity, a भवन material, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The metal and its alloys have been used लिये हज़ारों of years.
In the Roman era, copper was principally mined on Cyprus, hence the origin of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of साइप्रस ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which often impart blue or green colors to minerals such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with copper corrode to दे ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently features copper, both by itself and as part of pigments.
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a trace dietary mineral because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin, which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
The main areas where copper is मिला in vertebrates are liver, muscle and bone.
In sufficient concentration, copper compounds हैं जहरीला to higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major पेशेवर खेल leagues, or simply major leagues, in the United States and Canada are the highest professional competitions of team sports in the two countries.
Although व्यक्तिगत खेल such as golf, tennis, and auto racing are also very popular, the term is usually limited to team sports.
The term `` major league '' was first used in 1921 in reference to Major League Baseball ( MLB ), the शीर्ष स्तर of पेशेवर अमरीकी बेसबॉल.
Today, the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major League Baseball ( MLB ), the National Basketball Association ( NBA ), the National Football League ( NFL ), and the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ), the Canadian Football League ( CFL ), the Arena Football League, Major League Lacrosse, the National Lacrosse League and the महिलाओं 's नेशनल बास्केट संघ.
The NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL are commonly referred to as the Big Four.
Each of ये is the richest professional club competition in its sport worldwide.
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world, because the लीग enjoy a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada.
The NFL has 32 teams, and the others have 30 प्रत्येक.
The vast majority of major league teams are concentrated in the most populous महानगर areas of the United States.
Baseball, football, hockey, and सॉकर have had professional leagues for over 100 years ; early leagues such as the National Association, Ohio League, and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB, NFL and NHL respectively.
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894, but leagues suffered greatly इससे कमी of sustainability and seldom lasted more than a decade.
Soccer 's greatest successes were in the form of the American Soccer League ( 1921-1933 ), the original North American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and, currently, Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved from the National Basketball League and its splinter group the Basketball संघ of अमेरिका, लेने on इसके current form in 1949.
Every major league averages 15,000 fans in attendance per game or higher as of 2011.
Meridian Altitude is an astronomical नेविगेशन विधि of calculating an observer 's latitude.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or अर्जित मान project/performance प्रबन्धन ( EVPM ) is a project management technique for measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner.
क्युकी EVM has the ability to combine measurements of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
और cost,
in a single integrated system, Earned Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance problems, which is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by its use ; and similarly, using the methodology improves both scope definition as well as the analysis of overall project performance.
More recent research studies have दिखाया कि the principles of EVM are positive predictors of project success.
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government contracting, in which sector its importance continues to rise ( e.g., recent new DFAR rules ), in भाग क्युकी evm can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes.
Colorful spring garden पुष्प
Spring is one of the four conventional temperate seasons, following winter और preceding summer.
There are various technical definitions of वसन्त, but local usage of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and customs.
When it is spring in the northern hemisphere, it होगा be पतझड़ in the southern hemisphere.
at the वसन्त विषुव, days are close to 12 hours long with day length increasing as the season progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and also to ideas of rebirth, rejuvenation, renewal, resurrection, and regrowth, with festivals such as Carnival, ईस्टर और holi होने मनाये at this time.
jamestown थी a उपनिवेश in the Colony of Virginia, the first permanent English settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14, 1607 ( O.S., May 24, 1607 N.S. ), it followed several earlier failed attempts, including the Lost Colony of Roanoke.
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony for 83 years, from 1616 until 1699.
The settlement was located within the territory of a राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as Tsenacommacah, the state of the Powhatan Confederacy, with around 14,000 native inhabitants, and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists, who were not agriculturally inclined, although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on, अग्रणी to the कुल annihilation of the paspahegh in warfare भीतर 3 सालो.
Within a year of jamestown 's founding, the वर्जिनिया Company brought Polish and Dutch colonists to help improve the settlement.
In 1619, the पहला प्रलेखित africans यहूद brought to jamestown, हालांकि the आधुनिक धारणा of गुलामी in the भविष्य संयुक्त राज्य किया नहीं शुरू in वर्जिनिया जबतक 1660.
जब the उपनिवेश थी subdivided into the original eight shires of Virginia in 1634, the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire.
the लंदन कम्पनी 's दूसरी उपनिवेश, बरमूडा, दावा to be the साईट of the oldest कस्बा in the अंग्रेज़ी नई संसार, as st. जार्ज 's, बरमूडा थी officially स्थापित ( as नई लंदन ) in 1612, whereas जेम्स फोर्ट, in वर्जिनिया, थी नहीं to be परिवर्तित into जेम्स towne जबतक 1619, और further किया नहीं जीवित into the उपस्थित दिन.
In 1699, the capital was relocated इससे jamestown to कया is आज williamsburg, after which Jamestown ceased to exist as a settlement, existing today only as an archaeological site.
Today, Jamestown is one of three locations comprising the Historic Triangle of Colonial Virginia, along with Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on Jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by Jamestown National ऐतिहासिक साईट ( भाग of औपनिवेशिक National Historical Park ), and Preservation Virginia.
The Jamestown Settlement, a living history interpretive site, is operated by the Jamestown yorktown न्यास in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an American writer.
His books a लाख छोटी Pieces ( 2003 ) and My Friend Leonard ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal जब जांचकर्ताओं खोजा that prison time and the extent of certain injuries were exaggerated in A Million Little Pieces, a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & Company, most commonly known by its name John Deere, is an American corporation based in Moline, Illinois, और one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world.
In 2012, it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking.
Deere and Company agricultural products, बेची अंतर्गत the John Deere name, include tractors, combine harvesters, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment, as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment.
Additionally, John Deere manufactures equipment used in lawn, grounds, and turf care, such as walk-behind लॉन mowers, zero-turn लॉन mowers, लॉन tractors, और snowthrowers.
To support the कोर व्यवसायों, जॉन deere भी provides financial services and other related activities.
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a logo, a word खेल pun on `` nothing runs like a deer ''.
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` nothing Runs Like a Deere '' for a marketing campaign to sell snowmobiles.
The company 's products are also identifiable by its distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by yellow trim.
The United राज्य ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the U.S. Treasury Building is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स.
( Hamilton is एक of दो non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills issued today are संघीय Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 यहूद $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal आरक्षित बैंको in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television producer, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, and writer.
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles, and gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan 's film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became बेहतर ज्ञात लिये उसके टेलीविज़न भूमिकाएँ, playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin, ( née Raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an Australian -based, American -born naturalist, author, the विधवा of ऑस्ट्रेलियाई naturalist स्टीव इरविन और मालिक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया चिड़ियाघर at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile शिकारी, उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ with its spin-off series, Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries.
She has lived in Australia चूंकि 1992, जब she married Steve Irwin.
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the copernican प्रणाली, from the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical मॉडल in जिससे the धरती और planets revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System.
The word comes from the Greek ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` बीच '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, which placed the धरती at the बीच.
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos, but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that this is a misleading impression resulting from the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues that a heliocentric view was expounded in Hipparchus 's work on gravity.
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive mathematical model of a heliocentric system was presented, by the Renaissance mathematician, astronomer, and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following सदी, योहानेस Kepler elaborated upon and expanded this model to include elliptical orbits, and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of William Herschel, Friedrich Bessel, and others, astronomers realized that the sun was not the center of the universe and by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions.
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah जोन्स शंकर ; March 30, 1979 ) is an American singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
She is the daughter of Indian sitar player रवि शंकर and Sue Jones.
She is also Anoushka शंकर 's half-sister.
In 2002, वो शुभारम्भ उसके सोलो म्यूज़िक करियर साथ the release of the commercially successful and critically acclaimed album Come Away with Me, a fusion of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million copies.
The record earned Jones five Grammy Awards, including the एल्बम of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best New Artist.
Her subsequent studio albums, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, नहीं too लेट, released in 2007, the वही year she made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights, and her 2009 release The Fall all gained Platinum status, selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics.
Jones ' fifth studio album, Little Broken Hearts, was released on April 27, 2012.
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th on Billboard पत्रिका 's कलाकारों of the 2000–2009 decade chart.
Throughout her career, जोन्स रै जीती numerous awards and has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide.
बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the top jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be confused with Dimension of a शारीरिक quantity.
For other uses, see Dimension ( बहुविकल्पी ).
From left to right, the वर्गाकार, the घन, और the tesseract.
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional lines, the cube by 2-dimensional क्षेत्रों, और the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A प्रक्षेप of the cube is given since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, which additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a projection even in three-dimensional space.
A diagram showing the पहला चार स्थानिक आयाम.
In physics and mathematics, the dimension of a space or object is informally पारिभाषित as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it.
Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one coordinate is needed to बताएँ a point on it ( for example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a point on it ( for example, to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ).
The अंदर of a cube, a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions, interact according to relative गुण of द्रव्यमान —and हैं fundamentally गणितीय in वर्णन.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely identify a point or structure in its attitude and relationship to अन्य वस्तुएँ और आवृत्ति.
Physical theories that incorporate time, such as general relativity, are said to work in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum field and string theories.
The state-space of क्वांटम mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The concept of आयाम is not restricted to physical objects.
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for अनेक कारण, अक्सर as विन्यास spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics ; these are abstract spaces, independent of the physical space we live in.
Fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 निवासियों in सैन bernardino County, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially rural until World War II, when उद्योगों हेनरी J. कैसर निर्मित a विशाल steel mill in the area.
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry, with अंतरराज्यीय 10 and State Route 210 transecting the city from east to west, and Interstate 15 passing diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the सैन bernardino County system libraries, a renovated historic theater, a municipal park, and the Auto Club Speedway on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill.
Fontana also hosts the Fontana Days Half Marathon and 5K run.
This race is the fastest half-marathon कोर्स in the world.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012, बनाना it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state.
Cowboys Stadium is a स्टेडियम with a retractable roof in Arlington, Texas.
It serves as the घर of the National Football League 's Dallas Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, which opened in 1971, and served as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season.
It थी समाप्त on May 27, 2009.
The stadium seats 85,000, making it the third largest stadium in the NFL by seating capacity.
The maximum capacity of the stadium, including standing room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in each end zone and on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free interior and the चौथी largest high definition video screen, which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line.
The सुविधा can भी be प्रयुक्त लिये a किस्में of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts, basketball games, boxing matches, college football and high school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
Canadian historians until the 1980s tended to focus on economic history, सहित labour history.
in भाग इस is because Canada has had far fewer political or military conflicts than other societies.
This was विशेषकर सच्चा in the first half of the twentieth century when economic history was overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent अंग्रेज़ी कनाडाई इतिहासकारों from this period were economic historians, such as Harold Innis, Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe and the United States, but frameworks that worked खूब elsewhere प्रायः विफल in कनाडा.
The heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे economic history that dominates Europe has little relevance to most of Canadian history.
A focus on class, शहरी क्षेत्रों, and industry fails to address Canada 's rural and resource based economy.
Similarly, the monetarist school that is dominant in the United States also has been मुश्किल to ट्रांसफ़र उत्तर of the border.
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic भूगोल, और लिये many years the dominant school of thought has been the staples thesis.
इस स्कूल of thought bases the study of the Canadian economy on the study of natural resources.
This approach रै चूंकि भी become used outside of Canada in Australia and in many developing nations.
Before the आगमन of europeans, the पहला राष्ट्र of कया होता become कनाडा था a विशाल और हर्षोल्लास व्यापार संजाल.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods were प्रायः transported thousands of kilometres, mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region.
The early European history of the Canadian economy is usually studied through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive isotope of carbon with a केंद्रक containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of the radiocarbon dating method pioneered by Willard Libby and colleagues ( 1949 ) to date archaeological, geological और hydrogeological नमूने.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin Kamen और sam रूबेन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley, although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934.
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, and carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts, i.e., making up about 1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the कार्बन in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta decay.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक रे action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air नाभिकीय testing between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
the अलग isotopes of carbon do not differ appreciably in their chemical properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive कार्बन, in अनुक्रम to ट्रेस रासायनिक और biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन अणु इससे कोई given organic compound.
बिजली is a highly visible form of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are विद्युत discharges on a विशाल स्केल between the atmosphere and an earth-bound object.
They mostly originate in thunderclouds and terminate on the मैदान, पुकारा बादल to मैदान ( CG ) lightning.
However, वे may भी be initiated from a very tall grounded object and reach into the clouds.
हालांकि `` a बिजली स्ट्राइक '' is commonly used to describe all lightning, it is rather erroneous and a misnomer, as only about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide are CG, the large bulk of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ), where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere.
The scientific name for the पूरा प्रक्रम of a सिंगल बिजली event is a and it is a very complex, multiple stepped interaction, which is not completely understood.
Most CG flashes only `` strike '' one physical location, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the bright coursing light you may see and call a `` strike '', is only about 1 इंच in व्यास, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of मील.
And the entire flash, lasts only a few fractions of a दूसरी, सबसे of which is not visible to human eyes.
Thunder is always produced by बिजली.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it really is, the earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the outside world, ultimately determines whether it is `` सुना '' or not.
Lightning can not happen in a vacuum devoid of ions, nor can thunder occur बगैर अणुओं to vibrate.
थंडर is a physical absolute for every single flash of lightning.
Contrary to popular belief, a lightning strike itself is usually not जिम्मेदार लिये अनेक मौतों or injuries from a single event.
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a flash, unless people or animals were stacked on top of प्रत्येक other, or they were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel.
When lightning ignites an उपलब्धियाँ ईंधन सोर्स और an explosion occurs, it is the shock wave or fire causing the injuries, not the strike itself.
Ground Currents, also called step potential, of an earth termination is what truly causes सबसे चोटों or मौत to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous rush of सतह आरोप, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, race to the strike point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge.
This current, caused during each stroke, takes the path of least resistance, which may be ion rich human or animal legs, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is बेहतरीन to crouch, with feet close together, if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm.
Unfortunately, most reports do not draw a distinction between the real cause of injury or death, be it the strike itself, a resulting explosion or fire, or usually responsible step potential.
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the वर्तमान attorney General of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain और a पूर्व member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives.
A युगल following their marriage in the Manti Utah Temple.
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in Latter Day Saints मंदिरों by a व्यक्ति पकड़कर the sealing authority.
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar संबंध, बनाना संभावित the अस्तित्व of family relationships throughout eternity.
LDS teachings place great importance on the specific प्राधिकार जरूरी to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine teaches that this authority, called the Priesthood, corresponds to that दिए to संत Peter in.
Sealings are typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents.
They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith, Jr. ( the main founder of the Latter Day Saint movement ), and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह, view sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of plural marriage, some do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two हज़ारों '', थी a दशक कि began on January 1, 2000, and ended on December 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated after the early 1990s fall of communism, जारी to be a फ़ोर्स in the 2000s.
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the decade, making it possible for people to interact with other people, express ideas, introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds, use goods and services, sell and buy online, शोध और सीख परिचय बाते, along with experiencing the world without having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies कि उभरा or यहूद redefined पहले would subsequently in this decade benefit many countries, in particular China and India.
However, in other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing struggles with modernity, most notably characterized by the वृद्धि of al-qaeda और अन्य इस्लामवादी groups.
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States, United Kingdom, Spain, कनाडा और अन्य राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान, as well as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror.
The European Union saw further integration and विस्तार throughout much of Europe.
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences, raised demand for diminishing energy resources, and was still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was a gunfight that took place at about 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 26, 1881, in Tombstone, Arizona Territory, and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds, was fought between the outlaw Cowboys Billy Claiborne, Ike and Billy Clanton, and Tom and Frank McLaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne ran from the fight unharmed, but Ike 's brother Billy Clanton was मारे, साथ साथ दोनो mclaurys.
Lawmen Virgil and Morgan Earp and दस्तावेज़ Holliday were wounded.
Only Wyatt Earp came through the fight unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a time in अमरीकी इतिहास जब the frontier थी खोलें दायरा लिये outlaws opposed by law enforcement that was spread thin over vast territories, leaving some areas unprotected.
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी, Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal, two years after Earp 's death.
Lake retold उसके स्टोरी in a 1946 book that director John Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the फिल्म gunfight at the o.k. corral थी released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
Since then, the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of accuracy in numerous Western films and books.
Despite its name, the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the rear entrance to the O.K. Corral on fremont Street, and also in the street.
The two opposing parties were initially only about apart.
About thirty shots यहूद fired in thirty seconds.
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday but they were eventually exonerated by a लोकल न्यायधीश बाद a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp थी maimed in an हत्या attempt by the outlaw Cowboys, and on March 18, 1882, they assassinated Morgan Earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, and newly appointed Deputy U.S. Marshal व्याट earp took matters into उसके own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride, ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video data and compressed/uncompressed digital ऑडियो आंकड़ा इससे a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the source device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor, video projector, digital television, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a digital replacement लिये मौजूदा एनालॉग video standards.
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available, each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format, including standard, enhanced, high definition, and 3D वीडियो सिग्नल ; up to 8 चैनल्स of संपीडित or uncompressed डिजिटल audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards, which define वीडियो स्वरुप और waveforms, हस्तांतरण of संपीडित, uncompressed, and LPCM audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA EDID.
The CEC allows hdmi devices to control each other when necessary and allows the user to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset.
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual interface ( DVI ), no signal conversion is जरुरी, nor is वहीँ a घाटा of वीडियो quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used.
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, HDMI is independent of the various digital television standards used by individual devices, ऐसे as atsc और dvb, as ये हैं encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
Production of consumer HDMI उत्पाद प्रारंभ in लेट 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the HD ready in-store labeling specification लिये tv सेट लिये hdtv, प्रतिपादित by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders and digital still कैमरे in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the release of the first HDMI specification, over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped चूंकि the लॉन्च of the HDMI standard.
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as Bree होज और ब्री वेस्टन ) is a fictional character and one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives.
She is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has received multiple पुरस्कार और nominations for her portrayal, including an Emmy Award nomination, three Golden Globe Award nominations, and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
क्रॉस 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by critics and fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the role of मरियम ऐलिस यंग, लकिन श्रेणी निर्माता Marc Cherry thought she was better suited for the role of Bree.
Dana Delany, who eventually was डाल as कैथरीन mayfair, was originally chosen for the role but turned it down, saying it was too similar to her role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the श्रेणी रै महरूम उसके कोशिशें to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood, divorce, and alcoholism hindering her.
She has been married three times ; to Rex Van de Kamp ( Steven Culp ), Orson Hodge ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and ट्रिप Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See also the Town of algoma in winnebago County, Wisconsin.
See also Algoma ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 3,167 at the 2010 census.
Algoma is part of the ग्रीन Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American comedy film produced by Legendary Pictures and distributed by Warner भाईs. तस्वीरें.
It is the sequel to 2009 's The hangover और the second film in The Hangover franchise.
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट साथ Craig Mazin, and Scot Armstrong.
The film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, केन jeong, जेफरी Tambor, Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil, Stu, Alan, and Doug as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's विवाह.
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas, Stu takes no chances and opts for a सुरक्षित, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as नियोजित, resulting in another ख़राब hangover with no memories of the previous night.
Development of The Hangover Part II began in April 2009, two महीने पहले The Hangover was released.
The principal अभिनेताओं यहूद cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles from the first film.
Production began in October 2010, in Ontario, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, before moving on location in Thailand.
The film was released on May 26, 2011 and, despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run.
A third film is set for on may 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, पोर्ट्रेट miniature by Nicholas Hilliard, 1588, V & A.
believed to be the Earl of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by the विदेशी मार्कस Gheeraerts the Younger, c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic movement in England dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century.
It is associated साथ the pan-european पुनर्जागरण that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th century.
Like most of northern Europe, इंग्लैण्ड देखी छोटी of these developments until more than a century later.
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, when the Battle of Bosworth Field ended the Wars of the गुलाब और उदघाटन the ट्यूडर राजवंश.
Renaissance style and ideas, however, were slow in penetrating England, and the Elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the ऊँचाई of the अंग्रेज़ी पुनर्जागरण.
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( April 8, 1918 – July 8, 2011 ), was First Lady of the United States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford.
As First Lady, she was active in social policy and created precedents as a politically active अध्यक्षीय wife.
Throughout her husband 's पद in दफ्तर, वो maintained high approval ratings despite opposition from some conservative Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues.
Ford was noted for उठाने स्तन कर्कट जागरूकता following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter of, and activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement, she gained fame as one of the most candid first ladies in history, commenting on every hot-button issue of the time, including feminism, equal pay, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
She also raised awareness of addiction when she घोषित her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
following her White House years, she continued to lobby for the ERA and remained active in the feminist movement.
She was the founder, and परोसा as the पहला कुर्सी of the फलक of निर्देशकों, of the बेट्टी घाट बीच for substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( pecam-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein that in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a key role in निकालना aged neutrophils from the body.
Jessica rafalowski, Miss Florida USA 2008
Jenna एडवर्ड्स, Miss Florida USA 2007
Melissa Witek, Miss Florida यूएसए 2005
क्रिस्टन berset, Miss Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the representative for the state Florida in the मिस USA pageant.
While Florida has been successful in terms of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, the state has never जीती the Miss USA pageant, although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
Florida 's best results were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was lissette गार्सिया who placed in the top 16 in 2011.
Two former Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders have won this competition, and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America.
the वर्तमान titleholder is Michelle Aguirre of Hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became known as England, lasting from the end of Roman occupation and स्थापना of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general पद referring to the germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th centuries, including Angles, Saxons, Frisii, and Jutes.
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in England, which is now called Old English, and to the culture of the era, which has long आकर्षित लोकप्रिय और scholarly ध्यान.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia, East Anglia, Essex, Kent, Sussex, and Wessex.
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism दौरान the जल्दी काल, लकिन परिवर्तित to Christianity during the 7th century.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian hegemony during the 640s, समाप्ति साथ the death of Penda of Mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became dominant during the 9th century, under the rule of Alfred the Great.
During the 10th century, the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England, which stood opposed to the danelaw, the viking kingdoms स्थापित इससे the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the Viking invasion from Denmark in 1013 and was ruled by the House of Denmark until 1042, when the Anglo-Saxon House of wessex थी restored.
The last Anglo-Saxon king, Harold Godwinson, was killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
Lighting a traditional red ईंटों जॉन Ross Jr kiln
स्मोक्ड सामन is a preparation of salmon, typically a fillet that has been cured and hot or cold smoked.
Due to its moderately high price, smoked सामन is माना a कोमलता.
Although the term lox is sometimes लागू to स्मोक्ड सामन, they are different products.
दृश्य of defibrillator electrode position and placement.
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows सामान्य sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the type of device used or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable लय, अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) was a French fashion designer and founder of the चैनल brand.
She was the only fashion designer to appear on समय पत्रिका 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
Along with Paul Poiret, Chanel was credited with liberating women from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive, casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era.
A prolific fashion निर्माता, Chanel 's influence extended beyond couture clothing.
Her design aesthetic was realized in jewelry, हैंडबैग, and fragrance.
Her signature scent, Chanel No. 5, रै become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, ambition and energy which वो लागू to उसके पेशेवर and social life.
She achieved both success as a businesswoman और सोशल prominence thanks to the connections she made through her work.
These included many artists and craftspeople to जिसको वो became a patron.
However, Chanel 's highly competitive, opportunistic personality led उसके to make questionable life choices which have generated controversy around her reputation, particularly her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II.
Allied Mills flour mill on the banks of the मैनचेस्टर Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist mill, corn मिल or flour mill ) grinds grain into flour.
the पद can refer to both the grinding mechanism and the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country स्तिथ at the चौराहे of Central and Southeastern Europe, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west, Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and east, and Bulgaria to the south.
At, Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area, and has the seventh largest जनसांख्यिकी of the European Union with more than 19 million people.
Its capital and biggest city is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest city in the EU.
The United principalities उभरा जब the territories of Moldavia and Wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in 1881 he was finally crowned as किंग कैरोल i the पहला monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May 1877, and was internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of World War I, transylvania, Bukovina and Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of Romania.
World War II gave cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist General Ion Antonescu, who chose to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944.
After his removal, Romania switched sides in 1944 और joined the Allies.
By the end of the war, some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the सोवियत संघ, साथ Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact.
in 1965 nicolae ceauşescu became General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party, and the harsh austerity measures, political repression, and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually his authoritarian सरकारी थी toppled in December 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of 1989.
With the fall of the Iron Curtain, Romania began its transition towards democracy and a capitalist market economy.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered economic recovery.
as of 2010, रोमानिया is an upper-middle-income country with a high human development index.
Romania joined NATO on 29 March 2004, and the European Union on 1 January 2007.
It is also a member of the : लैटिन संघ, Francophonie, OSCE, WTO, BSEC, United Nations, etc.
Today, Romania is a unitary semi-presidential republic, in which the executive branch consists of the अध्यक्ष और the सरकारी.
`` प्राचीन '' redirects here.
For other uses, see Antiquity ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The times before writing belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th dynasty ) और ग्रेट Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the लिखा पास्ट इससे the beginning of recorded human history to the Early Middle Ages.
the स्पैन of अंकित इतिहास is roughly 5,000 years, with Cuneiform script, the oldest discovered form of coherent writing, from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC.
This is the beginning of history, as opposed to प्रागितिहास, according to the definition used by most historians.
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to history in the Old संसार इससे the शुरूआत of अंकित Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of Rome in 753 BC, the beginning of the history of प्राचीन रोम, और the शुरूआत of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece.
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed, some Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD, the closure of the platonic अकादमी in 529 ad, the मौत of the सम्राट जुस्तिनियन I, the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history.
In India, the period includes the early period of the Middle Kingdoms, and, in China, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a रूप of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored पारदर्शी समाधान in water.
Vitamin B12, विटामिन b12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is एक of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, especially affecting DNA synthesis and विनियमन, लकिन भी वसीय एसिड संश्लेषण और उर्जा उत्पादन.
Neither fungi, plants, nor animals are capable of producing विटामिन B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis, although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially तभी through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
it contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति, लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a खाना योगात्मक, क्युकी of इसके स्थिरता और निम्नतर उत्पादन लागत.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological उत्पाद और खाना supplements.
The extra utility of these is फिलहाल debated.
विटामिन b12 थी खोजा from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12, so a lack of intrinsic factor, as seen in pernicious anemia, कल्याणकारी a विटामिन b12 कमियां.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency और उनके biochemical प्रभाव have since been elucidated.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, था महरूम destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a काल of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 ad ).
In the 3rd सदी, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th सदी, during which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century, the eastern half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, विशेषकर यूरोपीय, और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total body surface क्षेत्रफल ( tbsa ) is an मूल्यांकन measure of burns of the skin.
In adults, the `` rule of nines '' is प्रयुक्त to determine the कुल percentage of area burned for each major section of the body.
In some cases, the burns may कवर अधिक than एक देह भाग, or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body.
For children and infants, the Lund-Browder चार्ट is प्रयुक्त to assess the burned body surface area.
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the combined surface क्षेत्रफल of the सिर और गर्दन to the surface area of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult.
Typical values for आम groups of humans follow.
( Due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant mortality rates by five years averages in 2008.
This is a list of countries by शिशु मृत्यु rate.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), better known by his stage name KJ-52, is a Christian rapper from Tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' भाग of उसके नाम refers to उसके old rap alias, `` King J. Mac, '' a name which he later described in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish, which is also sung about in his song `` Push Up '' from The Yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two.
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for `` Never Look Away '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the जीएमए dove Awards of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '', which is the first single for his एल्बम Five-Two Television.
उसके सोंग `` डिअर पतला '' is आधारित on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` स्टेन `` और is a sort of निजी संदेश इससे kj-52 to Eminem.
The degree प्रतीक ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used, among other things, to represent degrees of arc ( e.g. in geographic coordinate systems ), hours ( in the medical field ), or degrees of temperature.
The symbol consists of a छोटी उठाया circle, historically a zero glyph.
In युनिकोड it is encoded at.
This is a list of roots, suffixes, और prefixes प्रयुक्त in medical terminology, their meanings, and their etymology.
There are a few नियम when using medical roots.
firstly, prefixes and suffixes, primarily in Greek, but also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
As a general rule, this -o- almost always अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, instead of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go together according to language : Greek prefixes go with Greek प्रत्यय and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes.
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent परिचय segregating combining forms of different languages, it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots.
Stomach cancer, or gastric cancer, refers to cancer arising इससे any part of the stomach.
Stomach cancer causes about 800,000 मौतों worldwide per year.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year अस्तित्व < 5 to 15 % ) क्युकी most patients present with advanced disease.
Sara Lynn Evans ( born फ़रवरी 5, 1971 ) is an American country singer and songwriter.
For her entire career, she has been हस्ताक्षरित to RCA Records Nashville.
Evans ' debut, Three Chords and the Truth, did not उपज a शीर्ष 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts.
She followed this up with No प्लेस कि दूर ( 1998 ), Born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a gold प्रमाणन from the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ), while the other three albums all were certified platinum.
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That दूर ``, `` born to मक्खी ``, `` suds in the बाल्टी `` and `` A Real Fine Place to Start ``, plus the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 हिट्स `` तुम 'll सदा Be My Baby `` and `` As If ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit, `` A Little Bit Stronger ``, जिससे थी co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum.
Evans has also won one award each from Billboard, the Academy of Country Music, Country Music Association, Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award.
The world 's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be classified into a small number of प्रमुख समूह, although this is by no means a uniform practice.
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the सापेक्ष levels of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a C-54 land at Tempelhof विमानक्षेत्र ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the first major international crises of the Cold War.
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany, the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway, road, and canal अभिगम to the सेक्टर of बर्लिन अंतर्गत Allied control.
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the सोवियत मण्डल to प्रारंभ supplying Berlin with food and fuel, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In response, the Western Allies organized the Berlin airlift to carry supplies to the लोगों in वेस्ट Berlin.
Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the British Royal Air Force, the Royal ऑस्ट्रेलियाई एयर फ़ोर्स, the royal कनाडाई एयर फ़ोर्स, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000 flights in one year, providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the effort was clearly succeeding and, by April, the airlift was delivering more कार्गो than था previously been transported into the city by rail.
The कामयाबी of the बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट brought embarrassment to the Soviets who had refused to believe it could make a difference.
The blockade was lifted in May 1949 and resulted in the creation of two separate German states.
The संघीय गणतंत्र of Germany ( West Germany ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin.
In remembrance of the airlift, three airports in the former western zones of the city served as the primary gateways to जर्मनी लिये another fifty years.
The यूरोपियन चिह्न ; logotype and handwritten.
The euro sign is the currency sign used for the euro, the official currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ).
The डिज़ाइन थी प्रस्तुत to the public by the European Commission on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter कोड ( according to ISO standard ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR.
In Unicode it is एनकोडेड at.
In English, the चिह्न precedes the value.
In some styleguides, but नहीं others, the euro sign is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a परंपरागत दक्षिण अमरीकी infused drink, particularly in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, Syria and Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water.
Mate is परोसा साथ a metal straw from a shared hollow calabash gourd.
The straw is called a bombilla in some Latin American countries, a bomba in पुर्तगाली, और a bombija or, अधिक generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic.
The straw is traditionally made of silver.
Modern, commercially available straws are typically made of nickel silver, called Alpaca ; stainless steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil, it has the specific name of cuia, or also cabaça ( the name for indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of ब्राज़ील, स्टिल used for general food and drink in remote regions ).
Even if the water is supplied from a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias.
As with other brewed herbs, yerba mate पत्ते are dried, chopped, and ground into a powdery mixture called yerba.
The bombilla अधिनियमों as दोनो a straw and a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with small छेद or स्लॉट that allow the brewed liquid in, but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture.
A modern bombilla डिज़ाइन उपयोग a सीधा tube with holes, or spring sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the market in Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''.
This is माना a completely different drink.
It is never drunk from cuias or पुकारा chimarrão, nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The ऑटोमोटिव उद्योग is a पद कि कवर a चौड़ी दायरा of companies and organisations involved in the design, development, manufacture, marketing, and selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds.
It is one of the world 's सबसे important economic sectors by revenue.
The term automotive उद्योग प्रायः करता नहीं शामिल उद्योग समर्पित to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery to the end-user, such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations.
the पद ऑटोमोटिव थी निर्मित इससे यूनानी autos ( स्वः ), और लैटिन motivus ( of गति ) to represent कोई रूप of self-powered गाडी.
This term was proposed by sae सदस्य Elmer Sperry.
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista, Jr. ( born January 18, 1969 ), is an American mixed martial artist, bodybuilder, actor, and former professional wrestler best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment स्पर्धा अंतर्गत the रिंग नाम बतिस्ता.
In WWE, he became a six-time world champion, winning the World Heavyweight Championship four times, और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई चैंपियनशिप two times.
He is the longest-reigning World Heavyweight Champion in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इतिहास.
In addition to these championships, Batista has won the संसार टैग टोली चैंपियनशिप तीन times ( twice with Ric Flair and once with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ).
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline WrestleMania 21, one of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant, Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent to its developmental territory, Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ), where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship.
In August 2012, Bautista signed a contract with Classic Entertainment & Sports to लड़ो in मिश्रित martial arts.
He won his MMA debut on October 6, 2012, defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the पहला round.
Henry T. थामस sampson, Jr. ( born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor.
He graduated from high school in 1951 from Lanier High School in Jackson, मिसिसिपी.
He then attended मोरहाउस कॉलेज for a couple of years before transferring to Purdue University where he became a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity.
He received a Bachelor 's उपाधि in science from Purdue University in 1956.
He graduated with an MS degree in अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the University of California, Los Angeles in 1961.
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear Engineering इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965, and his PhD in 1967.
He is the first African American to earn a ph.d.in नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी in the United States.
कुछ of उसके accomplishments include being a member of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967.
Later he थी awarded the Black Image Award from Aerospace Corporation in 1982.
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied Science Award, and पुरस्कार लिये शिक्षा, by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983.
In June 2007, Sampson was married to Laura howzell यंग in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands.
Young-Sampson is a professor in the College of Education at California State University San Bernardino.
रॉबर्ट लेन Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a senior campaign adviser for US President Barack Obama.
Previously, he थी the 28th White House Press Secretary.
Gibbs was the communications director for then- U.S. Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, who has worked with Obama since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns, having served as communications director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign कमेटी और लिये चार व्यक्तिगत Senate campaigns, including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was also the press secretary of प्रतिनिधि bob etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, Gibbs was announced as the press secretary of the Obama प्रशासन.
He assumed the role of press secretary on January 20, 2009, and gave his first official briefing on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, Gibbs announced that he would leave the White House to become an outside adviser to the प्रशासन.
He left on फ़रवरी 11, 2011.
on फ़रवरी 12, 2013, it थी announced that Gibbs had been hired as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC.
His first appearance was on the same night prior to the 2013 State Of The Union पता.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by his stage name Pitbull, is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
His पहला अंकित performance was from the Lil Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut album titled M.I.A.M.I. ( short लिये धन is a प्रमुख Issue ) under TVT Records.
Since then, he has released three other albums under the लेबल : el Mariel in 2006, The Boatlift in 2007, and Planet Pit in 2011.
He released rebelution in 2009, which included singles `` I Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the hot 100 और no. 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know You Want Me '' peaked at No. 2 on the Hot 100 and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK, Canada, Italy, and the Netherlands.
The song पहुँचे no. 1 in फ़्रांस और the यूरोपीय Hot 100 on the week ending August 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He later signed with Polo Grounds Music through Sony Music and created his own लेबल mr. 305 Inc.
Another single from Rebelution was `` Hotel Room Service ``, which peaked at No. 8 on the Hot 100.
Rebelution गई on to sell over 7.5 million worldwide digital singles and albums combined.
Nevertheless, he dropped a smash called `` Give Me Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide, and featured artists Ne-yo, Nayer, and afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of अनेक अन्य hit गीतों, जैसे tik टोक, चीख & Shout, Lo Hecho Esta Hecho, Bad, Papi, Diamonds, How Low, Tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' You ), Video Phone, Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the host of his own Spanish-language program on the cable channel Mun2 titled la esquina ( स्पेनी for The Corner ).
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy Latino, a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop, Latin soul, Latin pop and other Tropical music, and has offices in New York and Miami, Florida.
Along with co-founding it, Pérez फिलहाल heads the a & R division of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside Drake, Rihanna, and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink giant Dr pepper as भाग of the अभियान “ विदा 23 ” लिये जिससे he अंकित the सोंग specifically featured on his album Armando.
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson लिये voli वोदका, in जिससे he holds a majority equity stake, and Budweiser has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer.
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing and gyrating on स्टेज पकड़कर up a bottle of Bud Light.
pitbull रै also purchased an equity stake in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many विद्वानों, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain कि it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling डरावने कहानियां, और watching horror films.
Freedom of वाक is the राजनैतिक सही to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय द्वेष ), कापीराइट violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on सिविल और राजनैतिक अधिकारों ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense, ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों जातिगत और धार्मिक Hatred Act 2006.
Sydney Harbour from the air, showing the Opera House, the CBD, Circular Quay, the Bridge, the Parramatta River, North Sydney और kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour सेतु is a स्टील through मेहराब सेतु आरपार सिडनी harbour कि carries रेल, vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore.
The dramatic view of the bridge, the harbour, और the आसपास सिडनी ओपेरा House is an iconic image of Sydney, New South Wales, and Australia.
The bridge is nicknamed `` The Coathanger '' क्युकी of its arch-based design.
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C. Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works, the bridge was designed and built by British firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and खोली in 1932.
The bridge 's डिज़ाइन was influenced by the Hell Gate Bridge in New York.
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) wide, until construction of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver.
it is भी the पांचवां longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, and it is the tallest steel arch bridge, measuring from top to water level.
Until 1967 the harbour Bridge was Sydney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands, in the northern Pacific Ocean.
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world, the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain, an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of ज्वालामुखी, चार of जिससे हैं क्रियाशील, दो of जिससे हैं dormant, और अधिक than 123 of जिससे are extinct, many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from south of the island of हवाई to the किनारे of the Aleutian Trench, near the eastern edge of Russia.
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries, the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory, first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo Wilson, proposes that a single, fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then, cut off from उनके सोर्स by the गति of the प्रशांत थाली, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years.
According to this theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and Hawaiian segments of the chain was caused by a अचानक शिफ़्ट in the movement of the Pacific Plate.
In 2003, fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot सिद्धान्त, suggesting कि हॉटस्पॉट हैं मोबाईल, not fixed, and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the पहला to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their constant battle with the sea was a major element in Hawaiian mythology, embodied in Pele, the deity of volcanoes.
After the arrival of Europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed the first formal geological पढ़ाई of the हॉटस्पॉट 's volcanics, confirming the relationship long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist Thomas jaggar, initiating निरन्तर scientific observation of the islands.
In the 1970s, a mapping project was initiated to gain more information about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The हॉटस्पॉट रै चूंकि महरूम tomographically imaged, showing it to be wide and up to deep, and olivine and garnet -based studies have shown its magma chamber is approximately.
In its at least 85 million years of activity the हॉटस्पॉट रै उत्पादित an estimated of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time, causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease, from 18 million years for the 76 million year old Detroit Seamount, to just under 900,000 लिये the एक लाख year-old kohala ; on the अन्य हाथ, eruptive आवाज़ रै increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a ट्रेंड towards अधिक क्रियाशील but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes on the near side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient Maui Nui ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
David Palmer, निदेशक of the show, announced that the season 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
याचिकाएं हैं होने signed to bring the show for a fifth season.
The show airs on treehouse tv कनाडा and Nick Jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 अमरीकी फिल्मी निर्देशित by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson, based on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
it थी marketed with the tagline `` Rebel.
रॉकर.
प्रेमी.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla और the mandible.
Various forms of ONJ have been described over the last 160 years, and a number of कल्याणकारी have महरूम सुझाया in the literature.
osteonecrosis of the जबड़े संबद्ध साथ bisphosphonate therapy, required by some cancer treatment regimens, has been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003.
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates, taken by patients to prevent or treat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have been explored, however severe cases of ONJ still require surgical removal of the प्रभावित अस्थि.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of dental infection are required to help prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in Boston, Massachusetts, and a member of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern प्रभाग.
Founded in as one of the अमरीकी लीग 's आठ charter franchises, the Red Sox 's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since.
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner, John I. Taylor, around, following पिछला बोस्टन टीमों that had been known as the `` Red Stockings ``.
They have played in 11 संसार Series, winning 7.
Boston was a dominant team in the new league, defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history, called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees two years after their world championship in 1918, an 86-year wait पहले the टोली 's sixth World Championship in.
However, the team 's history during that period was hardly one of futility, but was rather punctuated with some of the most memorable moments in World Series history, including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` नामुमकिन सपना `` of, कार्लटन फिस्क 's home run in, and Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history रै भी महरूम चिह्नित by the टोली 's तीव्र फंसने with the New York Yankees, arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports.
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway Sports समूह, जो भी अपना Liverpool Football Club of the Premier League in England.
The Red Sox are consistently one of the top MLB teams in average road attendance, while the small capacity of Fenway Park prevents them इससे leading in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 नियमित season ) for a major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade.
Mince pie भर साथ mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped dried fruit, distilled spirits and spices, and sometimes beef suet, beef, or venison.
originally, mincemeat always contained meat.
Many modern recipes contain beef suet, though vegetable shortening is sometimes प्रयुक्त in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia, Brittany, कनाडा, northern Europe, Ireland, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In some countries the term mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) was the first wife of Charles, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
She was well known लिये उसके fund-raising work for international charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 was held at St Paul 's Cathedral and देखी by a global television audience of over 750 million.
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales, Duchess of Cornwall, Duchess of Rothesay, countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage produced two sons, the princes William and Harry, who became दूसरी और तीसरा in line to the British throne.
Diana was born into an aristocratic English परिवार साथ royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th Earl Spencer and his बीवी Frances, daughter of Maurice Roche, 4th Baron Fermoy.
She became a पब्लिक फिगर साथ the announcement of her engagement.
She also received recognition for her charity work and for her support of the International अभियान to बैन landmines.
From 1989, she was the president of the Great Ormond Street Hospital for children, in addition to दर्जनों of अन्य charities.
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during and after her marriage, which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
Media attention और पब्लिक शोक यहूद considerable following her death in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997.
Argentina, officially the अर्जेंटाइन गणतंत्र ( ), is the second largest country in both South America and the Latin America region.
The country is a संघ of 23 प्रांतों and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires, its capital and largest city.
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population, with over 41 million people.
Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations, Mercosur, the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र, the संगठन of Ibero-American States, the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South America, bordered by Chile to the west and south, बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the north and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast.
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica, the Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor राज्य of the viceroyalty of the río de la प्लाटा, an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire.
Argentina declared independence during the Argentine War of Independence, which was followed by the अर्जेंटाइन Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The country faced अनेक सैन्य coups और राजनैतिक अस्थिरता दौरान the 20th century, along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day.
A पहचाना दक्षिणी Cone power, and middle power, Argentina is Latin America 's third-largest economy, with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index.
Within Latin America, Argentina has the fifth highest nominal GDP per capita and the उच्चतम in खरीदना शक्ति शर्तें.
the Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct investment, and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '', and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy.
अर्जेंटीना is the लैटिन American country with the most Nobel Prizes, for a total of five, all obtained during the second half of the twentieth century.
The country has three Nobel prizes in science and two of peace.
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine, nuclear physics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the mega exhibition center of science, technology, industry और आर्ट कि हैं लैटिन America 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba काउंटी, साथ parts also in Burke County and Caldwell County.
The city 's 2010 estimated जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010.
hickory is the प्रिंसिपल city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA, in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, PETE, or the obsolete PETP or PET-P, is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; पेय, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber.
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a सोर्स of confusion because this substance, PET, does not contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate form, बहु ( एथिलीन terephthalate ), is often used in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy and clarity.
Depending on its processing and thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर.
The semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( particle size < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी और श्वेत ( particle size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct, or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल और dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done immediately after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET उत्पादन is लिये सिंथेटिक fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), with bottle production accounting for around 30 % of global demand.
In the context of textile applications, PET is referred to by its common name, `` पॉलिएस्टर, '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up परिचय 18 % of world polymer production and is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized units of the मोनोमर एथिलीन terephthalate, with repeating C10H8O4 units.
पालतु is commonly recycled, and has the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol.
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30, 1812, and elects सीनेटरों to वर्ग 2 और Class 3.
Its current senators are Democrat Mary Landrieu and रिपब्लिकन दाउद Vitter.
Black pudding, blood खीर or रक्त सॉसेज is a प्रकार of sausage made by cooking blood or dried blood with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled.
The dish exists in various cultures from Asia to यूरोपीय and the Americas.
Pig, cattle, sheep, duck, and goat blood can be used depending on different countries.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers include meat, fat, suet, bread, cornmeal, sweet potato, onion, chestnuts, जौ, और oatmeal.
In Spain, पुर्तगाल and Asia, potato is often replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, group, संगठन, सदस्य or प्रणाली जो affects or can be affected by an organization 's actions
Stakeholder, an entity that can be affected by the results of कि in जिससे वे हैं said to be stakeholders, i.e., that in which they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a person, group or संगठन साथ an ब्याज in a project
Stakeholder theory, a theory that identifies and models the groups जिससे हैं हितधारकों of a corporation or project
Stakeholder analysis, the process of identifying those प्रभावित by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ), a third पार्टी जो temporarily holds money or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9, 1925 - September 1, 2003 ) थी an अमरीकी थिएटर और film director.
Smight was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota and went to school with भविष्य कर्ता पीटर Graves.
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner, Rabbit, Run, Loving Couples, Midway, Harper, Airport 1975, फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning Eddie, as well as many episodes of television series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour.
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th Cousin and composed the music for the फिल्मी adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry.
Smight died इससे cancer in Los Angeles, California.
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S. 27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor.
He formulated the Periodic Law, created his own version of the periodic table of elements, and used it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of तत्व yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the City of Modesto, is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States.
With a population of लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 census, Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of California.
The Modesto Census County Division, which includes the cities of Ceres and Riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the central घाटी क्षेत्रफल of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 मील उत्तर of fresno, 92 मील ईस्ट of San Francisco, 68 miles south of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles south of Stockton.
Modesto, a 29-time Tree City USA honoree, is घिरी by rich farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, chickens, walnuts, and corn silage, the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 अरब in agricultural production in 2011.
Modesto थी immortalized in the 1973 George Lucas film American Graffiti.
The award winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, हैरिसन घाट और Richard Dreyfuss starred in the film.
The soundtrack was a विशाल success.
Director George Lucas is a native of Modesto, graduating from Downey High School in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants daily and asks individuals to assess उनके कार्य, finances, शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य, emotional state of mind and communities, ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
In December 2009, Forbes क्रमित modesto 48th आउट of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability and travel time but also ranked 86th in job भविष्यवाणी growth and 99th in foreclosures.
Independence Day, commonly known as the Fourth of July, is a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, concerts, baseball games, family reunions, and political speeches and ceremonies, in addition to various other पब्लिक और निजी कार्यक्रम celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the United States.
स्वतंत्रता दिन is the national day of the United States.
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an एजेंट by gender.
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are derived from astrological प्रतीकों, denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus, respectively.
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting elements in alchemy, specifically the metals iron and copper.
They were first used to denote the प्रभावी लिंग of plants ( i.e. sex of individual in a given crossbreed, since most plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751.
A leasehold एस्टेट is an स्वामित्व of a अस्थाई सही to hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a tenant does hold rights to real property, a leasehold estate is typically considered personal property.
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure where one party खरीदता the right to occupy land or a building for a given length of time.
As lease is a विधिक एस्टेट, leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market.
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an indeterminate length of time, and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly.
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in दशकों or सदियां ; a 99 साल पट्टे is काफी आम ) the leaseholder has the right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner.
शर्तें of the अनुबंध हैं contained in a lease, which has elements of contract and property law intertwined.
the पद एस्टेट for years may occasionally be used.
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific period of time ( the word `` years '' is भ्रामक ).
An estate for years is नहीं automatically renewed.
Colloquially, `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared साथ a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short period.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig ओलिविया ) is a british-american children 's एनिमेटेड television series produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is seen on Nick jr. in the US, Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland, and डिज़्नी जूनियर in लैटिन अमेरिका and Brazil, Treehouse TV in Canada.
The show has won a silver Parents ' Choice Award for its धनात्मक स्टोरी lines and characters.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( bottom ) and Caribbean ( top ), with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a जलयान कनाल in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean.
The canal कटौती आरपार the isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
There are locks at each end to lift ships up to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the राशि of कार्य जरूरी for the canal.
The current locks are चौड़ी.
A third, wider lane of locks is being built.
France began work on the canal in 1881, but had to stop because of अभियान्त्रिकी समस्याएं and high mortality due to disease.
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914, enabling ships to avoid the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the जलसन्धि of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken, the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to travel between the Atlantic और प्रशांत महासागर in हाफ the time previously required.
The shorter, faster, safer route to the US वेस्ट coast और to राष्ट्र in और along the Pacific Ocean allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy.
During this time, ownership of the territory that is now the Panama Canal थी पहला कोलम्बियाई, तब फ्रेंच, और तब अमरीकी ; the United States completed the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the panamanian सरकारी, as long planned.
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships जब the कनाल opened in 1914, to 14,702 vessels in 2008, the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons.
By 2008, more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal, many of them much larger than the original planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax.
The American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Panama Canal one of the seven चमत्कार of the आधुनिक संसार.
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790 ) was one of the founding fathers of the United States.
A noted polymath, Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, राजनेता, postmaster, वैज्ञानिक, संगीतकार, inventor, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat.
As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the फ्रैंकलिन स्टोव, a carriage odometer, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated many civic संगठन, including a fire department and a university.
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity ; as an लेखक और प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies, तब as the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and विपक्ष to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, `` In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat. ''
To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working class roots, became a कामयाब समाचारपत्र एडिटर और मुद्रक in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania वृत्तान्त, a समाचारपत्र that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies.
He became wealthy publishing Poor Richard 's almanack and The Pennsylvania Gazette.
Franklin gained international renown as a वैज्ञानिक लिये उसके प्रसिद्ध experiments in electricity and for his many inventions, especially the lightning rod.
He played a major role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania and was elected the first president of the अमरीकी philosophical Society.
Franklin became a national hero in America when he पथप्रदर्शन the प्रयत्न to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a प्रमुख figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations.
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies, जिससे सक्रिय him to set up the first national communications network.
He was active in community अफेयर्स, औपनिवेशिक and state politics, as well as national and international affairs.
From 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of Pennsylvania.
Toward the end of his life, he freed his slaves and became one of the सबसे prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and status as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of many towns, counties, educational संस्थानों, namesakes, and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
Criminal Minds is an अमरीकी police procedural television program that premiered September 22, 2005, on CBS.
The श्रेणी फ़ॉलो a टोली of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico, Virginia.
The BAU is part of the FBI National बीच लिये the विश्लेषण of हिंसक Crime.
The show differs इससे अनेक प्रक्रियात्मक dramas by focusing on profiling the criminal, rather than the crime itself.
The show is produced by The Mark गॉर्डन कम्पनी in संघ with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS announced in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive would develop a video game based on the दिखाएँ.
The game would require players to examine crime दृश्यों लिये clues to सहायता solve murder mysteries.
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012, but did not feature any of the voices of the show 's cast, nor was the cast involved with the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an आठवीं ऋतु, which premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana, written by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain.
The song was released as the first single from the group 's third and final studio album, In utero, in 1993.
It was एक of दो गीतों इससे the एल्बम मिश्रित by स्कॉट Litt in order to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini.
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a शारीरिक सिंगल लिये बिक्री in the संयुक्त राज्य, `` heart-shaped Box '' received much American radio airplay, reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज of the single reached number five on the UK Singles Chart.
The song 's music video, directed by एंटोन corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
The orbital speed of a body, generally a ग्रह, a प्राकृतिक उपग्रह, an कृत्रिम उपग्रह, or a अनेक star, is the speed at which it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed, the average speed as it completes an orbit, or instantaneous orbital speed, the speed at a particular point in its orbit.
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the distance to the central body at that position, and the specific orbital energy, which is independent of स्थिति : the गतिज उर्जा is the कुल energy minus the potential energy.
Brown Palace आंतरिक और Atrium
Brown Palace होटल is the second-oldest operating hotel in Denver, Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is now operated by कोरम होटल और Resorts.
It was निर्मित in 1892, one year later than the Oxford Hotel.
It was named लिये इसके असली मालिक, हेनरी C. Brown, and was designed with its odd triangular shape by architect Frank Edbrooke.
The hotel is located at 321 17th St, डेनवर, co between 17th गली, ब्रॉडवे and Tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
The main प्रवेश door is on Tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, और is फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता video format in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for DVD फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first available for retail around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was निर्मित by dvd फ़ोरम and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, because every सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the DVD Book is मालिकाना and confidential.
The nautical mile ( symbol M, NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc of latitude measured along any meridian, or about one minute of arc of देशांतर at the equator.
By international agreement it has been set at 1,852 मीटर exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for use in the International System of Units by the BIPM ) used especially by navigators in the shipping और विमानन industries, and also in polar exploration.
It is commonly used in international law and treaties, especially regarding the limits of territorial waters.
It विकसित इससे the sea mile and the related geographical mile.
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators worldwide because of its convenience when working with charts.
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about a factor of छह इससे the equator to 80° अक्षांश, so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart, so a अलहदा measured साथ a चार्ट divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale.
Shippensburg is a borough in कम्बरलैंड और फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, Shippensburg lies in the कम्बरलैंड घाटी, 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 लोगों lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; and in 1940, 5,244 people lived there.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 5,492 at the 2010 census.
Shippensburg was incorporated as a borough on January 21, 1819.
In the past, there were furniture factories, engine and पंप works, and other industrial works located within the town.
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest manufacturer of decorations and party goods, which sells its distinctive honeycomb पेपर सजावट worldwide.
It is also the location of Pague and Fegan, the oldest continuously operated hardware store in Pennsylvania.
In May 2012, Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 million विस्तार प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ इसके अमरीकी headquarters to Shippensburg.
shippensburg is भी home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania, one of 14 universities of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education.
वार्षिक the पिछला full week of July, the Shippensburg Community Fair is held.
Begun in 1958, the मेला bills itself as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county fair.
The fair includes agricultural exhibits, a craft show, food vendors, and carnival rides amongst other things.
Every summer on the last Saturday of August, Shippensburg holds the Corn Festival, an event that brings regional artisans and विक्रेता to operate stands downtown.
The downtown is closed to ट्रैफ़िक लिये at तनिक 5 blocks for most of the day.
Average attendance at the पर्व is अनुमानित at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
Black hairy जीभ ( bht, भी termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, but it is a harmless कंडीशन.
predisposing कारकों शामिल धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene और निश्चित medications.
Management is by improving oral hygiene, especially scraping or brushing the tongue.
The आईईईई 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a सीरियल bus interface standard for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer.
It was developed in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s by Apple, who called it FireWire.
The 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is comparable to USB, and often those two technologies are considered together, though USB has more market share.
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 models, and most Apple कंप्यूटर चूंकि the साल 2000 have शामिल FireWire ports, though, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK ( सोनी ), and Lynx ( Texas Instruments ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many applications, because of lower implementation costs and a simplified, अधिक अनुकूलनीय cabling system.
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane इंटरफ़ेस, though this is not as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection interface लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) component communication and control.
FireWire is also available in wireless, fiber optic, and coaxial versions using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials SRV, Vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
साथ साथ drummer Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and दोगुना ट्रबल consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold.
He was born and raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a short period of time lived in ग्राहम, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue उसके musical करियर, joining समूह ऐसे as krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the attention of संगीतकारों दाउद बोवी और जैक्सन browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by दिग्गज रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, जॉर्जिया to दे up a कोका और दारू आदत and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and earned them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a किस्में of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and Muddy Waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic तराजू.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was मरणोपरांत inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie रे Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas.
GigE redirects यहाँ.
For the camera protocol, see gige vision.
In computer networking, gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit प्रति दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 बिट्स प्रति दूसरी ), as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into use beginning in 1999, gradually supplanting Fast ईथरनेट in wired local networks, where it performed considerably faster.
The cables and equipment are very similar to previous standards and यहूद बहुत आम और किफायती by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are allowed by the specification, लकिन full-duplex उपयोग with switches is much more common.
Intel PRO/1000 gt PCI network interface card
The प्रमुख components of a stamp:
1. Image
2. perforations
3. denomination
4. देश name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as evidence of भुगतान of postage.
Typically, stamps are made from special paper, with a national designation and denomination ( price ) on the face, और a gum adhesive on the reverse side.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other प्राधिकृत विक्रेता और हैं प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत involved in moving mail as well as other business necessities such as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s shape is प्रायः कि of a छोटी आयताकार of varying proportions, though triangles or other shapes are occasionally used.
the स्टैम्प is affixed to an लिफाफा or अन्य डाक कवर ( i.e., पैकेट, बक्सा, mailing बेलन ) कि the ग्राहक बधाइयां to send.
The item is then processed by the postal system, where a postmark, sometimes known as a cancellation mark, is usually applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the स्टैम्प as प्रयुक्त, जिससे रोकता its reuse.
The postmark indicates the date and point of origin of the mailing.
The mailed item is then delivered to the address that the customer has applied to the लिफाफा or कवर.
Postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail since the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), usually made from wood or कॉर्क, यहूद often used to frank the mail and confirm the payment of postage.
The first adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the Penny ब्लैक, थी जारी in the United Kingdom in 1840.
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the डाक प्रणाली in the संयुक्त Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, which in the early 19th century was in disarray and rife with corruption.
There are varying accounts of the inventor or आविष्कारक of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient, a प्रणाली कि थी संबद्ध साथ an irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items, and senders had no incentive to restrict the number, size, or weight of items sent, whether or not they would ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a simple और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner, साथ the अतिरिक्त benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced.
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage envelopes, post cards, lettercards, aerogrammes and wrappers, postage मीटर, और, अधिक recently, specialty बाक्स और लिफाफे provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the mailer and postal officials, more efficiently recovered costs for the postal service, and ultimately resulted in a better, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps during this era यहूद the सबसे popular way of paying for mail, but by the end of the 20th century were rapidly being eclipsed by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses. )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with उनके engraved imagery began to appear on a widespread basis, historians and collectors began to take notice.
The study of postage stamps and their उपयोग is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be both a hobby and a form of historical study and reference, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations.
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public university in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama.
Developing from an extension center established in 1936, the institution became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is आज one of three institutions in the University of Alabama System.
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's, master 's, doctoral, and professional degrees in the social and behavioral sciences, the liberal arts, कारोबार, शिक्षा, अभियान्त्रिकी, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, and public health.
The school is highly renowned for its चिकित्सा research and natural sciences programs.
The UAB Health System, one of the largest अकादमिक medical centers in the United States, is affiliated with the university.
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in various medical specialties, including आतंरिक आयुर्विज्ञान, न्यूरोलॉजी, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
UAB Hospital is the तभी acs सत्यापित स्तर i आघात center in Alabama, as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, with more than 18,000 faculty and staff and over 53,000 jobs at the university and in the health system.
An estimated 10 percent of the कार्य in the birmingham-hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB.
the विश्वविद्यालयों 's overall annual economic impact was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the University of Alabama at Birmingham नामांकित 17,999 विद्यार्थी from more than 110 countries, including 1,605 freshmen.
There are plans to commence साथ an `` आक्रामक '' growth in enrollment at UAB.
The current UAB President is Dr. रे L. watts.
Tofu, also called bean curd, is a food made by coagulating soy juice and तब दबाने the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
It is a घटक in many East Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines.
There are many different varieties of tofu, including fresh tofu and tofu that रै महरूम processed in कुछ way.
टोफू has a subtle flavor and can be used in savory and sweet dishes.
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
Tofu originated in प्राचीन China some 2,000 years ago.
चाइनीज legend ascribes its invention to prince Liu An ( Chinese : 劉安 Liú Ān, 179–122 BC ).
Tofu and its production technique were introduced into Korea and then जापानी दौरान the Nara period.
It spread into other parts of ईस्ट एशिया as well.
This spread likely coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of Buddhism because it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism.
Li Shizhen in the Ming राजवंश वर्णित a विधि of making tofu in Bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie count, relatively large amounts of protein, and छोटी मोटे.
It is high in आयरन और depending on the coagulant used in manufacturing, may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a आम चिंपैंजी, ज्ञात लिये होने the one-time pet of American recording artist Michael Jackson, who bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s.
The animal थी a बारंबार सफर companion to the singer, whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery and, among other factors, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad World Tour, for example, Jackson brought Bubbles with him to Japan, जहाँ वे दोनो पिया tea with the mayor of Osaka.
Bubbles was initially kept at the Jackson family 's home in Encino, Los Angeles, but was moved to neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom, used the singer 's toilet, and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the public learned that, like all captive chimpanzees, Bubbles had matured into a large and aggressive adult chimp unsuitable as a साथी एनिमल.
He was sent to a California animal प्रशिक्षक, जहाँ he थी reported to have attempted suicide.
When the trainer shut down his operation in 2004, Bubbles was moved to the Center for Great Apes, a अभयारण्य in wauchula, Florida, where he has lived since 2005.
Muse are an English rock band इससे teignmouth, देवों, which formed in 1994.
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals, lead guitar, piano, keyboards, keytar ), Christopher Wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 एल्बम ब्लैक Holes and Revelations, keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band.
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres, including space rock, प्रगतिशील rock, alternative rock, heavy metal, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), Origin of सममिति ( 2001 ), absolution ( 2003 ), ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे ( 2006 ), The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have also issued three live albums, hullabaloo साउंडट्रैक ( 2002 ), जिससे is also a compilation of B-sides, Absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
Black Holes and Revelations earned the band a पारा पुरस्कार नामांकन और a तीसरा place finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006.
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history, including five MTV Europe Music Awards, six Q Awards, eight NME Awards, two Brit Awards —winning `` बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों सजीव Act '' twice, an MTV Video Music Award, four Kerrang !
Awards and an American म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
They were also nominated for पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, of जिससे वे जीती बेहतरीन Rock Album, for their fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ).
Muse have sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital city of the Free State Province of South Africa ; and, as the judicial capital of the nation, one of South Africa 's three national capitals – the other two being Cape Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of roses ``, owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there.
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung, meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it रै been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on dry grassland at, at an altitude of above sea स्तर.
the नगर is घर to 369,568 residents, while the Mangaung Local Municipality has a population of 645,455.
Where do we आइये From ?
What Are we ?
जहाँ Are We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul gauguin 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध paintings.
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of life or existence in general.
It can also be expressed in different forms, such as `` Why are we here ? ``, `` What is life all about ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It रै महरूम the विषय of much philosophical, वैज्ञानिक, और theological अटकलें throughout इतिहास.
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many अलग cultural and ideological backgrounds.
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on many other issues, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the अस्तित्व of one or multiple Gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions फ़ोकस primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context and parameters concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality.
An alternative, humanistic दृष्टिकोण मुद्राएँ the question `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the achievement of ultimate reality, or a feeling of oneness, or भी a अहसास of sacredness.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter griffin, stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five main voice actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the पहला ऋतु ) और माइक हेनरी and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton, Adam West, John G. Brennan, निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर tilly, और repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
अनेक डाल members provide voices for multiple characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the show, draw प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ and pop culture.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting दायित्वों.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production, though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 Illustration by एडमंड dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a young स्त्री whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first published with three others by Andersen in an inexpensive booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by c.a. reitzel.
Andersen had heard the story as a चाइल्ड, और it likely has its source in folk material, possibly originating from Sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition.
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well received by Danish critics, who disliked their कैज़ुअल, chatty style, and their lack of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess and the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a उत्पादन पुकारा एकबार Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett.
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United States who were either born in Germany or are of जर्मनी ancestry.
They comprise परिचय 50 million people, making them the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish Americans, African Americans and English Americans.
वे comprise परिचय 1/3 of the जर्मनी diaspora सब over the संसार.
None of the जर्मनी राज्य had New World colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the first significant groups of German immigrants arrive in the British colonies, settling primarily in नई यॉर्क और पेन्सिलवेनिया.
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th century, with some आठ लाख आमद from Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom, and pushed out of Europe by shortages of जमीन और धार्मिक or political oppression.
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom, others for economic opportunities greater than those in Europe, and others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World.
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers जो sought आउट the most productive land, where their intensive farming techniques would pay off.
After 1840, अनेक आए to cities, where `` Germania '' —German-speaking districts—soon emerged.
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United States, introduced the Christmas tree परंपरा, और originated लोकप्रिय अमरीकी foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers.
German अमरीकी जश्न हैं held throughout the country, one of the most well-known being the German-American Steuben Parade in New York City, held every third Saturday in September.
There are also major annual events in Chicago, Cincinnati, मिल्वौकी, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and other cities.
Like अनेक अन्य आप्रवासियों कि आए to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming number of people of German or partial German descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
The history of the Internet began with the development of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California, लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल उपकरण थी संस्थापित at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, and telenet, यहूद विकसित in the लेट 1960s और early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in which multiple separate networks could be joined साथ into a संजाल of संजाल.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and consequently, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) और again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, commerce, entertainment, and social networking.
Southwest Airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline and the world 's largest low-cost वाहक, headquartered in डलास, Texas.
It was established in 1967 और अपनाया its current name in 1971.
The airline has more than 46,000 कर्मचारी and operates more than 3,400 flights per day.
As of जून 5, 2011, it carries the most domestic passengers of any U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस has scheduled service to 84 destinations in 41 states and Puerto Rico.
दक्षिणपश्चिम Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s, except for a few years in the 1970s and 1980s, when it operated Boeing 727s.
As of August 2012, Southwest is the largest operator of the 737 worldwide with over 550 in service, each operating an average of six flights per day.
In May 2011, the airline acquired AirTran एयरवेज़, साथ संयोजन of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company was issued a single operating certificate, technically बनने one airline.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company.
Although founded as a local beer in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया, it was marketed aggressively and eventually became a national product.
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. लुई, मिसौरी, in मिड 2006, जिससे transferred brewing operations to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born Joseph Aloisius ratzinger on 16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He served as पोप इससे 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and sovereign of the वेटिकन City State.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 अप्रैल 2005, और took possession of his cathedral, the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran, on 7 May 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in उसके देशी बायर्न, ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958.
After a long career as an academic, serving as a प्राध्यापक of धर्मशास्त्र at अनेक जर्मनी universities—the पिछला being the University of Regensburg, where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience.
In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation for the doctrine of the आस्था, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as pope, he was also डीन of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स, और as such, the primus inter pares among the cardinals.
Prior to becoming pope, he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the most respected, influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to सेटिंग गिरिजाघर प्राथमिकताएं और दिशानिर्देश '' as एक of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants.
He was originally a liberal theologian, लकिन अपनाया conservative views after 1968.
His सफल कृतियाँ defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values.
During his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental ईसाई मान to काउंटर the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st सदी.
He taught the importance of both the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और an समझना of God 's redemptive love.
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position.
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, viewing the उपयोग of सौंदर्य as a पाथ to the पवित्र, प्रचारित the उपयोग of Latin, and reintroduced traditional papal garments, for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
He has been described as `` the main intellectual force in the Church '' चूंकि the mid-1980s.
अनेक of पोप Benedict 's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 February 2013, Pope Benedict announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` lack of strength of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
His इस्तीफा became effective on 28 February 2013.
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, और the पहला to do so on उसके अपना initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, and the title of Pope, and will continue to पोशाक in the papal colour of white.
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for उसके रिटायरमेंट on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope साथ original test image.
Used by सैन्य to जाँचें stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an जल्दी stereoscopic card for viewing a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and सेट of स्टीरियो स्लाइड.
Patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs, painting by Jacob spoel, before 1868.
A very early depiction of लोगों using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a तकनीक लिये बनाना or बढ़ाना the illusion of depth in an image by means of stereopsis for binocular vision.
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` firm, solid '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to see ''.
सबसे stereoscopic विधि present two offset images separately to the left and right eye of the viewer.
These two-dimensional images are then संयुक्त in the दिमाग to give the perception of 3D depth.
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display an image in three full dimensions, allowing the observer to increase information about the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ होने प्रदर्शित by सिर and eye movements.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, and a leading एडवोकेट of American independence from Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his प्रायः seminal विचार, दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in अक्षर to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the Continental Congress, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, and was इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the कॉंग्रेस.
Later, as a diplomat in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain, and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans, as well as the dominant गुट in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, और निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his peaceful रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and रिटायर्ड to मैसाचुसेट्स.
He later resumed his दोस्ती with Jefferson.
He and his wife, अबीगैल एडम्स, संस्थापित an accomplished family line of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams, the छठे अध्यक्ष of the United States.
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times, though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of अन्य संस्थापकों.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building that eventually became known as the White House.
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the bill, while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured on currently जारी u.S. बिल्स.
The other is Benjamin Franklin, on the $ 100 bill.
हैमिल्टन is एक of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 bills issued today are संघीय आरक्षित Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to पहनें.
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are वितरित by संघीय Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner XL performing a high-speed फेरे.
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a jet of water ejected from the back of the craft.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the boat, a jetboat draws the water from under the boat into a pump inside the boat, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) for operation in the fast-flowing and shallow rivers of New Zealand, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient design of the units and the fact that they offered few advantages over conventional propellers.
Unlike these previous waterjet developments, such as campini 's और the hanley hydrojet, Hamilton had a specific need for a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the popularity of the jet ईकाई और jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा of पोत प्रकार, और as ऐसे, waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels, including passenger ferries, rescue craft, patrol boats and offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, and अनेक can, इससे पूरा गति, be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own length, in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is काटें, the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again, causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water.
There is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats, though the validity of their use depends a lot on the type of application.
Classic prop-drives हैं generally अधिक कुशल और किफायती at low speeds, up to about, but as boat speed increases beyond this, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( etc. ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ).
Also, in situations with very large propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ), the equivalent size waterjet होता be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the vast majority of waterjet इकाई हैं संस्थापित in high-speed बरतन और in particular situations where shallow draught, maneuverability, and load flexibility are main concerns.
The biggest jet-driven vessels हैं मिला in military use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry.
South Africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even these German-built vessels are सक्षम of performing `` crash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly defined as सूजन of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the middle, pigmented, vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ साथ urgent treatment to control the inflammation.
eric `` E. ''
मर्फी is a fictional character on the comedy-drama television series Entourage.
He is निभाई by Kevin Connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 मनोवैज्ञानिक हॉरर फिल्मी उत्पादित and directed by Stanley Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, and starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Scatman Crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
The film is based on the Stephen King अनोखा the जगमगाता.
A writer, Jack Torrance, takes a job as an off-season कार्यवाहक at an पृथक hotel.
His young son possesses psychic abilities and is able to see things from the past और भविष्य, such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
Soon after settling in, the परिवार is फंस in the hotel by a snowstorm, and Jack gradually becomes influenced by a supernatural presence ; he descends into madness and attempts to murder his wife and son.
Unlike previous Kubrick films, which developed an audience gradually by building on word-of-mouth, the जगमगाता थी released as a mass-market film, opening at first in just two cities on Memorial Day, then nationwide a month later.
Although आरंभिक जवाब to the फिल्मी थी मिश्रित, later critical assessment was more favorable and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, लिखने in the Daily Beast, ranked it as one of the 11 scariest horror movies of all time.
Film critics, film students, and Kubrick 's निर्माता, जन harlan, have remarked on the enormous influence the film has had on popular culture.
The initial European रिलीज of the जगमगाता थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the American version, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
आँगन कोला Bottle
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of diet soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It was created in response to Diet Rite Cola, which was the first आहार कोला on the market.
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake थी आँगन आहार कोला 's spokesperson.
in 1964, Patio released orange, grape, and root beer flavors.
This flavor line was not meant to compete साथ brands like Orange Crush, but rather fill out the line.
Patio sodas were available in the cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores.
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the time, bottlers यहूद regionally franchised, and related advertising was necessarily local.
In 1964, आँगन diet cola became Diet Pepsi.
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi either way '', जिससे replaced the स्लोगन `` Dances with flavor ''.
The short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a great addition for bottle collectors.
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors were phased out by the early 1970s, जबकि a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a society or enterprise, or the services and facilities necessary लिये an अर्थव्यवस्था to function.
It can be generally पारिभाषित as the set of interconnected structural elements that provide framework supporting an entire structure of development.
It is an महत्वपूर्ण पद for judging a country or region 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society, such as roads, bridges, water supply, sewers, electrical ग्रिड, दूरसंचार, और so forth, और can be पारिभाषित as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable, sustain, or enhance societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services, and also the वितरण of समाप्त उत्पाद to markets, as well as basic social services such as schools and hospitals ; for example, roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory.
In military parlance, the term refers to the buildings and permanent संस्थापना necessary for the support, redeployment, and operation of military forces.
To make it simple, infrastructure is anything that is needed रोज, an रोज item.
A आलेखीय प्रतिनिधित्व of the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial DNA.
Human genetic विभिन्नता is the genetic differences both within and among populations.
There may be multiple variants of any given gene in the human population ( genes ), अग्रणी to polymorphism.
Many genes are not polymorphic, अर्थ कि तभी a सिंगल allele is उपस्थित in the population : the gene is then said to be fixed.
No two humans are genetically एकसमान.
Even monozygotic twins, who develop from one zygote, have infrequent जेनेटिक मतभेद due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely related individuals, are the key to तकनीकों ऐसे as जेनेटिक fingerprinting.
Alleles occur at different बारंबारता in different human populations, with populations that are more geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more.
कल्याणकारी of मतभेद between individuals include the exchange of genes during meiosis and various mutational events.
There are at least दो कारण why genetic variation exists between populations.
Natural selection may confer an adaptive advantage to individuals in a विशिष्ट पर्यावरण if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles under selection are संभावित to occur only in those geographic regions where they confer an advantage.
The second main cause of genetic variation is due to the high degree of neutrality of सबसे mutations.
Most mutations do not appear to have any selective effect one way or the other on the organism.
The main cause is genetic drift, this is the प्रभाव of यादृच्छिक परिवर्तन in the gene pool.
In humans, founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have had an important influence in न्यूट्रल differences between populations.
the सिद्धान्त कि इंसानो recently migrated out of Africa supports this.
The study of human जेनेटिक विभिन्नता has both evolutionary significance and medical applications.
It can help scientists understand ancient human population migrations as well as how अलग human groups are biologically related to one another.
For medicine, study of human genetic variation may be important because some disease-causing alleles occur more often in people इससे विशिष्ट भौगोलिक regions.
New findings show that each इंसान रै on औसत 60 नई mutations compared to their parents.
Apart from mutations, many genes that may have aided humans in ancient times plague humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes that allow इंसानो to अधिक efficiently प्रक्रम खाना are those that make people susceptible to obesity and diabetes today.
Tea Party protesters on the West लॉन of the U.S. Capitol and the National Mall at the Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12, 2009.
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that अधिवक्ताओं सख्त adherence to the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution, reducing U.S. government spending and taxes, and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The movement has been called partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The movement has प्रायोजित विरोध and supported political candidates since 2009.
The name of the movement is निकला इससे the बोस्टन Tea Party of 1773, an iconic event in American history.
Anti-tax protesters in the संयुक्त राज्य have often referred to the original Boston Tea Party for inspiration.
References to the Boston Tea Party were part of Tax Day protests आयोजित throughout the 1990s and earlier.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some conservative activists of mailing tea bags to legislators and other officials as a symbolic act.
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely follow the historic विकास of प्यूर्टो Rico.
As a colony of Spain and the संयुक्त राज्य, प्यूर्टो रीको थी granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies.
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502, प्यूर्टो रीको became an important port, with its own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves भागा खाली भीतर the century, the archipelago 's economy suffered.
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano, which meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold from the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the द्वीप, as a रास्ता to provide economic support.
Between 1636 and 1637, फिलिप iv of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid using a revenue stamp.
प्रेरित by इस, प्यूर्टो रीको began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the first colony to print 8- real banknotes in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues.
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century, बनाना an आर्थिक संकट, as a result of Mexico gaining its independence from Spain.
Salvador Meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the issue of provincial banknotes, creating the Puerto Rican peso.
however, printing of these banknotes ceased after 1815.
During the following decades, foreign सिक्के became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the Banco Español de Puerto Rico was उदघाटन और began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed four श्रेणी और लगाई three in circulation under Spanish rule.
In 1895, a Royal Decree ordered the उत्पादन of provincial peso coins.
On August 13, 1898, the spanish-american युद्ध ended with Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United States.
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and issued bills equivalent to the United States dollar, बनाना the प्यूर्टो rican डालर.
In 1902, the First नेशनल Bank of Porto Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner.
Two more series यहूद जारी until 1913.
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United States ' economic and monetary system, the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury.
The peso and dollar have been followed by अन्य समकालीन मुद्दे, including commemorative banknotes, private currency, and a quarter coin designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, तब to पेप्सी in 1961.
The Book of Ezekiel is the तीसरा of the latter नबियों in the यहूदी बाइबल, following the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( The order is somewhat different in the Christian Old Testament ).
It derives its name from, and रिकॉर्ड the visions of, the 6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel.
According to the book, the prophet, exiled in Babylon, experienced a series of seven visions दौरान the 22 सालो from 593 to 571 BC, a period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the किताब, हैं संरचित around तीन विषयवस्तु : ( 1 ) निर्णय on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the nations ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय Area, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is named बाद orléans, a नगर स्तिथ on the loire नदी in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला, as खूब as इसके cross-cultural और बहुभाषी विरासत.
नई ऑरलियन्स is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके भोजन, म्यूज़िक ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ), and its annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी River.
The city and Orleans मोहल्ला ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city limits, lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the ईस्ट.
The National Birth Control League was a birth control संगठन in the United States.
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary Dennett, Clara Gruening Stillman and Jessie Ashley.
Its main purpose was to overturn the laws which banned contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
अभियान were mounted in New York, but in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, ज्ञात medically as a malignant फुलाव, is a broad group of various diseases, all involving unregulated cell growth.
In कर्कट, cells divide and grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby parts of the body.
The cancer may also spread to more distant parts of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
Not सब tumors are cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do not invade neighboring tissues, and do not spread throughout the body.
There are over 200 different known cancers that पहुँचकर इंसानो.
Determining what causes कर्कट is complex.
Many things हैं ज्ञात to बढ़ाएँ the रिस्क of कर्कट, including tobacco use, certain infections, radiation, lack of physical activity, obesity, and environmental pollutants.
These can directly damage genes or combine with existing genetic faults भीतर कोशिकाएं to कारण the बीमारी.
Approximately five to ten percent of cancers हैं entirely खानदानी.
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways, including the presence of certain signs and symptoms, screening tests, or medical imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic examination of a ऊतक sample.
Cancer is usually treated with chemotherapy, radiation therapy and surgery.
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type और स्थान of the cancer and the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
While cancer can affect people of all ages, और a few प्रकार of cancer are more common in children, the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age.
In 2007, cancer caused about 13 % of all human मौतों विश्वव्यापी ( 7.9 लाख ).
Rates are उठती as अधिक लोगों सजीव to an old age and as mass lifestyle changes occur in the developing world.
Spring ski touring on hardangervidda, Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in which the participant attaches long धावक or skis to बूट or जूते on the फीट और uses them to travel on top of snow.
Aside from recreation and competition, skiing has been used for military purposes and even यात्राएं in क्षेत्रों कि अनुभव heavy snowfall.
Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International Olympic कमेटी, और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Ski Federation.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st सामन्त keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a British economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics, and informed the economic policies of governments.
He built on and greatly refined पहले कार्य on the कल्याणकारी of business cycles, and is widely considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th century.
His ideas are the आधार लिये the स्कूल of thought known as Keynesian economics, as well as its various offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be viewed as either भवन on keynes ' ideas or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking, overturning the older ideas of neoclassical economics that held that free markets would, in the short to मीडियम पद, automatically provide पूरा नियुक्ति, as long as मजदूर were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity, and that inadequate कुल माँग could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment.
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the adverse effects of economic recessions और depressions.
Following the outbreak of the Second World युद्ध, keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as Baron Keynes of Tilton in the काउंटी of Sussex.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of Keynesian economics resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems that began to पहुँचकर the anglo-american economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the decade, and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy.
However, the आगमन of the global financial crisis in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the crisis by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United राज्य, प्रधान मंत्री गॉर्डन भूरा of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.
in 1999, समय पत्रिका शामिल keynes in उनके सूची of the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और influential लोगों of the 20th सदी, commenting कि : `` उसके कट्टरपंथी विचार कि सरकारें चाहिए खर्च धन वे do n't have may have saved पूंजीवाद. ''
In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics Society, a director of the Bank of England, a patron of the arts and an art collector, a part of the Bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals, an सलाहकार to अनेक charitable trusts, a writer, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the एम्सटर्डम esnoga synagogue.
The Ten Commandments, also known as the Decalogue, are a set of biblical laws relating to ethics and worship, which play a fundamental role in Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
They include instructions to worship only God, to keep the sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry, blasphemy, murder, चोरी, deception and adultery.
Different groups follow slightly different परंपराओं लिये interpreting and numbering them.
The Ten आयतें appear twice in the Hebrew Bible, in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy.
according to the स्टोरी in exodus, परमेश्वर inscribed उन्हें on दो स्टोन टैबलेट, जिससे he दिया to मूसा on माउंट sinai.
Modern scholarship has found likely influences in Hittite and mesopotamian laws and treaties, but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four studio albums, one extended play ( EP ), one live album, ten संकलन एल्बम, बीस singles, एक वीडियो एल्बम और चौदह म्यूज़िक वीडियो on the Rough Trade, Sire and WEA record labels.
The बैंड थी formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite being championed by बीबीसी रेडियो 1 डिस्क jockey जॉन Peel, the band 's debut single, `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ), failed to chart.
Its follow-up, `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ), मिले साथ नाजुक acclaim और पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984, as they reached number twelve in the UK with the `` What Difference Does It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the uk, helping to consolidate उनके पिछला chart success.
The अगला स्टुडियो एल्बम, मांस is Murder ( 1985 ), reached the top of the British charts ; however, the only single to be released from the album, `` That Joke Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the उच्चतर than क्रमांक तीस in the UK and their third album, The Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ), reached number two in the UK.
Despite the band 's chart success, Marr left the समूह in August 1987 due to a strained relationship with Morrissey.
Failing to find a replacement, The Smiths disbanded by the time their final studio album, Strangeways, Here We Come, was released in September that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's highest-charting रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य जब it पहुँचे number fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In early 1992, wea acquired the संपूर्ण वापस catalogue of The Smiths and produced two compilations – Best... I and... Best II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, with a further compilation, The Sound of The Smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone with the Wind is a novel written by Margaret Mitchell, first प्रकाशित in 1936.
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the historical romance novel.
However, it रै महरूम argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and does not contain all of the elements of the romance genre, making it simply a historical novel.
The स्टोरी is नियत in Clayton County, Georgia, and Atlanta during the American Civil War and Reconstruction.
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner, who must उपयोग प्रत्येक अर्थात् at उसके निपटान to आइये आउट of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the Wind in 1926 to pass the time while recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an editor who was looking for new fiction, read what she had written and देखी कि it could be a best-seller.
बाद लैथम सहमत to प्रकाशित the किताब, मिशेल worked लिये another छह महीने checking the ऐतिहासिक सन्दर्भ, और rewrote the खोलने अध्याय अनेक टाइम्स.
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh, a copy editor by trade, edited the final संस्करण of the novel.
Mitchell लिखा the किताब 's final moments first, and then wrote the events that led up to it.
As to what became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, after the novel ended, Mitchell did not know, and said, `` For all I know, Rhett may have found someone else जो थी कम मुश्किल. ''
Mitchell received the पुलित्जर Prize for Fiction for the book in 1937.
The book was adapted into a 1939 American फिल्मी.
Gone with the Wind is the only novel by Mitchell published दौरान उसके lifetime.
endodontics ( इससे the यूनानी endo `` अंदर '' ; और odons `` दाँत '' ) is एक of the दंत specialties पहचाना by the अमरीकी दंत संघ, royal कॉलेज of dentists of कनाडा, और royal australasian कॉलेज of दंत अध्येतावृत्ति, और सौदे साथ the दाँत गूदा और the ऊतकों surrounding the रूट of a दाँत.
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly known as `` root canal चिकित्सा '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked teeth, and treating dental trauma.
Root canal therapy is one of the most common procedures.
If the गूदा ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic tissue, and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured, endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth.
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point सीरियल प्रोटोकॉल that moves data to and from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives.
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like its पूर्ववर्ती, uses the standard SCSI command set.
SAS offers backward compatibility with second-generation SATA drives.
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be connected to SAS backplanes, लकिन sas ड्राइव can not connect to SATA backplanes.
The T10 technical committee of the International Committee for Information Technology Standards ( INCITS ) develops and maintains the SAS protocol ; the scsi व्यापार संघ ( scsita ) promotes the technology.
Part of the constitutional provision as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born नागरिक of the United States is one of the eligibility requirements established in the United States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President.
This requirement was intended to protect the nation इससे विदेशी influence.
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born citizen, and विभिन्न राय have महरूम offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
A 2011 congressional शोध Service report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by birth, but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the सवाल of a विशिष्ट अध्यक्षीय or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22, 1971 ) is a former American football player.
He played quarterback for three National Football League ( NFL ) टीमों : the St. Louis Rams, the New York Giants, and the Arizona Cardinals.
He was originally हस्ताक्षरित by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स as an undrafted free agent in 1994 after playing college football at Northern Iowa.
Warner would go on to be considered the best undrafted खिलाड़ी of all time, following a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL history.
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St. Louis Rams from 1998 to 2003, where he जीती two NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV.
he led the 2008 एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to सुपर कटोरी xliii ( the मताधिकार 's पहला सुपर कटोरी berth ), और owns the तीन उच्चतम single-game गुजर yardage योग in सुपर Bowl history.
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest करियर passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), and the third-highest career completion percentage in NFL history with 65.5 %.
In 13 करियर playoff खेल, warner बाँधने पहला all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5 % ), yards per attempt ( 8.55 ), and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the highest completion percentage for a single game during the regular season, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on September 20, 2009, विरूद्ध the jacksonville jaguars.
He announced उसके रिटायरमेंट on January 29, 2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born May 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त States Senator from North Carolina, in office since January 2009.
Previously she परोसा in the North Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a member of the Democratic Party and is viewed as a moderate member of her party.
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election, she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election.
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football.
It was created in 1935 as the शहर Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's athletic director, John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College, Auburn University, Clemson University, Rice University, and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football, basketball, and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ).
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl games.
It is the oldest of several overall awards in कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल, सहित the Maxwell Award, Walter Camp Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, जबकि the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार और वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the best player, and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player.
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the बहुराष्ट्रीय सैन्य शक्तियां supporting the गणतंत्र of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted Resolution 83, recommending that members of the United Nations provide assistance to the गणतंत्र of कोरियाई `` to repel the हथियारबंद आक्रमण और to restore अंतरराष्ट्रीय सलाम और सुरक्षा to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that members providing military forces and other assistance to South Korea `` मेक ऐसे शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता उपलब्धियाँ to a unified command under the United States of America ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations forces '', and United Nations itself could be माना a belligerent, in अभ्यास the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces, which were controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded that the forces under the unc यहूद नहीं in विधि United Nations troops, and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of national armies, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the सामूहिक सही of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to join the UNC, which until then included only ROK and U.S. forces.
The 27th ब्रिगेड स्थानांतरित into the Naktong River line west of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in रैपिड उत्तराधिकार ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Belgian United Nations Command, Canada, Colombia, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Thailand and Turkey.
The Union of दक्षिण Africa provided air units which fought alongside the air forces of other member nations.
Denmark, India, Norway, and Sweden provided चिकित्सा units.
Italy provided a hospital, even though it was not a UN member.
The United Nations Command and the Chinese-North Korean Command signed the Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953, ending the heavy fighting.
The armistice agreement established the Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ), consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the दो signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि अंतर्गत exclusive North Korean management.
Regular meetings have been रोका, हालांकि duty officers of Joint Security Area, commonly known as the Truce Village of Panmunjom, from each side meet regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton, a Mission Vista police officer who moves his family back to his old neighborhood, Lincoln Heights, to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood.
It is a dangerous place to raise a family, and through the अनेक ट्रायल the family goes through, they soon learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a गली cop in लॉस एंजिल्स, his kids try to fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors.
The show premiered January 8, 2007 on the ABC Family network with 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
It was approved for a second season, which premiered सितंबर 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK had been used in a commercial to प्रचार the second season.
To promote the तीसरा ऋतु, वे दिखाया क्लिप्स of cassie and Charles 's relationship to the song, Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up, David Archuleta.
To promote ऋतु 4, वे 're using the song, Avalanche by Marie Digby.
The show 's theme song was written and performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire reinhard.
On January 29, 2010, ABC Family announced the रद्दीकरण of the series after four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
In the Orthodox tradition, चर्च हैं विभाजित प्रायः along ethnic and linguistic lines, into separate churches and traditions.
Technically, divisions between one group and another are पारिभाषित by doctrine and church authority.
Issues such as the nature of Jesus, the authority of apostolic succession, eschatology, and papal primacy पृथक एक denomination from another.
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members, over half of all Christians worldwide, making it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide ( although the church does not view itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide, and together the Catholics, protestants, Anglicans, and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox चर्च और the Assyrian Church of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations.
पश्चिमी ईसाई denominations prevail in Western Europe and its former colonies.
Eastern ईसाई denominations are represented mostly in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and North Africa.
Christians have विभिन्न doctrines परिचय the गिरिजाघर, the body of faithful that they believe was established by Jesus Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider प्रत्येक of themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक पावन Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other.
protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and practices that they considered to be in violation of their interpretation.
Generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians, at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
Since the reforms surrounding Vatican II, the Catholic Church has referred to Protestant communities as `` denominations '', while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches, including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ).
There are however some non-denominational ईसाइयों who do not follow any particular branch.
The panda ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from the unrelated red panda, is a bear native to central-western and south western China.
It is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black patches around its eyes, over the ears, and across its round body.
Though it belongs to the order carnivora, the panda 's diet is 99 % bamboo.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat अन्य grasses, जंगली tubers, or भी meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, they may receive honey, eggs, मछली, yams, shrub leaves, oranges, or bananas along with specially prepared food.
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China, mainly in Sichuan province, but also in the shaanxi और गांसू provinces.
As a result of farming, deforestation and other development, the panda has been driven out of the lowland क्षेत्रों where it once lived.
The panda is a conservation reliant endangered प्रजाति.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas जीना in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country.
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals जीना in the जंगली, while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the wild is on the rise.
However, the IUCN does not believe there is enough certainty yet to reclassify the प्रजाति इससे endangered to Vulnerable.
While the dragon has often served as China 's national emblem, internationally the panda appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely used within China in international contexts, for example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc Forster based on the novel of the वही नाम by खालिद Hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul, who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan, the son of his father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military हस्तक्षेप, the mass exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States, and the Taliban regime.
Though most of the फिल्मी is नियत in अफगानिस्तान, these parts were mostly shot in Kashgar, China, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in Dari, with the शेष बोला in English.
The child actors are native speakers, but several adult actors had to learn Dari.
Filming wrapped up on दिसम्बर 21, 2006, and the film was expected to be released on November 2, 2007.
However, after concern for the safety of the यंग अभिनेताओं in the फिल्मी due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear, its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14, 2007.
The Kite Runner थी released on dvd on March 25, 2008.
A hd dvd release was announced for the same date, but was canceled following the format 's demise.
The film was nominated लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार for Best Foreign Language Film in 2007.
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias थी मनोनीत लिये बेहतरीन असली Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards.
The वैधता of cannabis varies from country to country.
कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि, which governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries, including Canada, the चेक गणतंत्र and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस लिये recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation और a ठीक, बल्कि than कारावास.
कुछ क्षेत्राधिकारs/ ड्रग न्यायालयों उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता, साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions परमिट कैनबिस उपयोग लिये औषधीय उद्देश्य.
There are भी changes in a more restrictive direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many देशों and have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a वाक्य of जीवन in prison or even execution.
loxahatchee is a community located in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest of Royal Palm Beach, Florida and approximately west of West Palm Beach.
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post Office that serves इस क्षेत्रफल, जिससे is अंतर्गत the zip कोड of 33470.
The name Loxahatchee means `` कछुआ नदी. ''
loxahatchee is स्तिथ भीतर the Indian Trails Improvement District and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control District.
शेर देश Safari, a drive-through safari park, is located in Loxahatchee.
In 2006, the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the कस्बा of loxahatchee groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County.
The main reason for incorporating was to better protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood.
Perhaps the most rural क्षेत्रफल भीतर a बंद proximity to West Palm Beach, with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres.
साथ साथ the acreage, it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native and exotic animal presence is quite notable.
Seminole लकीरें ऊँची School serves the area.
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test, administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ), that is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 और 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship.
The test is available in both French और अंग्रेज़ी, the official languages of Canada.
Renaissance क्रूज़, originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway, later purchased by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War.
They संचालित year-round क्रूज itineraries to the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Northern Europe and Scandinavia.
The company ceased operations on 25 September 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000 अतिथि in 2000.
While the company had been in poor financial health for quite कुछ time, the economic decline resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line.
the बेड़े is listed under List of cruise ships.
It was headquartered in फोर्ट lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is one of the four basic types of animal tissue, along with संयोजी ऊतक, मांसपेशी ऊतक और बेचैन ऊतक.
epithelial ऊतकों लकीर the कैविटी and surfaces of structures throughout the body, and also form many glands.
Functions of epithelial कोशिकाएं शामिल स्राव, चयनात्मक अवशोषण, protection, transcellular transport and detection of sensation.
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial परतों हैं avascular, so वे जरूर प्राप्त nourishment via diffusion of substances from the underlying connective tissue, through the basement membrane.
Epithelia can भी be व्यवस्थित into क्लस्टर of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands.
Kent E. hovind ( born जनवरी 15, 1953 ) is an American young Earth creationist.
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution, geophysics, and cosmology in favor of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of his ideas have also been criticized by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis.
Hovind established the सृष्टि विज्ञान इंजीलवाद in 1991, and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and churches, debates, and on radio and television broadcasts.
Since January 2007, Hovind has been serving a ten-year prison sentence after होने convicted of 58 संघीय counts, including 12 tax offenses, one count of obstructing federal agents, and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions.
He is incarcerated at the संघीय correctional Institution at Berlin, New Hampshire.
Bride with Bindi सजा forehead
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, small particle, dot '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in तमिल, तेलुगु, और मलयालम ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( particularly India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the forehead close to the eyebrows, लकिन it can भी consist of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location.
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday, November 2, 2010, to elect the Governor of New York, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson, elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the running mate of former Governor Eliot Spitzer, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, New York Attorney General and Democrat Andrew cuomo पराजित Republican Carl Paladino.
ग्रीन पार्टी प्रत्याशी Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the New York Green Party to be listed on the ballot for the next 4 years.
The प्रमुख डाल of Dragon Ball at the end of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama.
The series takes place in a fictional universe, the same as Toriyama 's previous series Dr. Slump, and follows the adventures of martial artist Son Goku from childhood to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls, used to summon a wish-granting ड्रैगन.
During the course of the स्टोरी, he मुठभेड़ों allies such as Bulma, Yamcha, Kuririn and Trunks, rivals such as Tenshinhan, Piccolo and Vegeta, and enemies such as Freeza and Cell.
While many of the characters are humans साथ superhuman शक्ति and/or अलौकिक abilities, the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife, with several characters being gods कि govern the universe.
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of उपस्थित day eastern New Mexico, southern Colorado, northeastern Arizona, southern Kansas, all of Oklahoma, and most of northwest Texas.
The Comanche people are enrolled in the federally recognized comanche स्वदेश, in Oklahoma.
Historically, the comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have been as many as 45,000 comanches in the late 18th century.
Today, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment numbers 15,191 with लगभग 7,763 सदस्यों residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma.
The Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is held annually in Walters, Oklahoma in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the Comanche भाषा, a numic भाषा of the uto-aztecan परिवार, sometimes वर्गीकृत as a Shoshone dialect ; however, only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today.
Ethan Frome is a novel प्रकाशित in 1911 by the Pulitzer Prize -winning American author Edith Wharton.
It is set in the fictitious town of starkfield, Massachusetts.
the अनोखा was adapted into a film, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio located in the Times Square पड़ोस of the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York.
The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning अमेरिका ( जीएमए ), a morning news and talk program and segments for GMA on ABC News Now.
the Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines in every देश मगर Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by the coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, produce समाप्त product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending मशीने.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the कोक ब्रांड name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and खास संस्करण with lemon, lime or coffee.
आधारित on interbrand 's best global brand 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
Types of bar-lines
In musical notation, a bar ( or measure ) is a segment of time defined by a given number of beats, each of which are assigned a particular note value.
Dividing music into bars provides regular सन्दर्भ अंक to pin पाइंट locations within a piece of music.
It also makes written music easier to follow, since each bar of staff symbols can be read and played as a batch.
Typically, a piece consists of several bars of the same length, और in आधुनिक musical संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट at the शुरूआत of the स्कोर by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more common in British English, and the word measure is more common in American English, although musicians generally समझे दोनो usages.
In American English, although the words bar और माप are often used interchangeably the correct use of the word 'bar ' refers only to the vertical line itself, while the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally correct to speak of bar numbers and measure numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the वही lines, it is wise to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ इत्यादि. for beats only ; bars should be referred to by name in full.
The first metrically complete measure within a piece of music is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins with an anacrusis ( an अधूरी measure at the head of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis, which can make considerable योगदान to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, बदलें और distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ are global.
Hence the अतिरिक्त costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Primary care may be provided in community health centres.
Primary care is the health परवाह दिए by a स्वास्थ्य care provider.
Typically this प्रदाता अधिनियमों as the प्रिंसिपल point of consultation for patients within a health care system and coordinates other specialists that the patient may need.
Such a professional can be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or family physician, or depending on the locality, health system organization, and patient 's discretion, they may see a pharmacist, a चिकित्सक सहायक, a नर्स practitioner, a नर्स ( such as in the United Kingdom ), a clinical officer ( such as in parts of Africa ), or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the nature of the स्वास्थ्य condition, patients may then be referred for secondary or tertiary care.
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a सोंग recorded by American pop punk group Yellowcard.
It was released in February 2004 as the second सिंगल इससे समंदर एवेन्यू and the third track.
It is known for bringing them into the मुख्यधारा, as it प्राप्त numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in jacksonville, फ्लोरिडा, the band 's stomping grounds near their high school, Douglas Anderson School of the Arts, and another street mentioned in the song, Cherry Street.
The name of Ocean Avenue in jacksonville is actually Beach Boulevard.
वे बाएँ their original base behind when they moved to Los Angeles.
The song was featured on the Much Music compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9.
A psychiatrist is a physician who specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the treatment of mental disorders.
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct physical examinations, order and interpret laboratory परीक्षण, उपयोग मनोचिकित्सा और may अनुक्रम दिमाग इमेजिंग अध्ययन such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, reproductive स्वास्थ्य, or यौन health/hygiene, पता the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life.
Reproductive health, therefore, implies that people are able to have a responsible, satisfying and safer sex life and that they have the काबिलियत to reproduce और the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe, प्रभावी, सस्ती और स्वीकार्य विधि of जनम कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to उचित health care services of sexual, reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
On the other hand individuals do face inequalities in reproductive health services.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status, education level, age, ethnicity, religion, and संसाधन उपलब्धियाँ in their environment.
It is possible for example, that low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to know what is उचित लिये maintaining reproductive health.
According to the WHO, `` Reproductive and यौन ill-health खाते for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for women, and 14 % for men. ''
reproductive health is a part of Sexual and reproductive health and rights.
This is a list of एपीसोड लिये the डिज़्नी चैनल असली series The Suite Life on Deck, which aired for three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a दायरा of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single-, dual-, and quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models are single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise two dies, each containing two cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the pentium ब्रांड to the mid-range market, and reunified laptop and desktop CPU lines, which previously had been divided into the Pentium 4, Pentium D, and Pentium M brands.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 जुलाई 2006, comprising the Solo ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), and in 2007, the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro प्रौद्योगिकी ( designed लिये businesses ) include the dual-core and quad-core branches.
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ), the highest level of professional American football in the United States, culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year.
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to identify each game, rather than the साल in जिससे it is held.
लिये उदाहरण, सुपर कटोरी I was played on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 regular season, while Super Bowl XLVII was played on February 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The खेल थी निर्मित as भाग of a merger agreement between the NFL and its then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play in an afl–nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल जबतक the merger was to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each league was redesignated as a `` conference ``, and the game was then played between the conference champions.
Currently, the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( NFC ) leads the series with 25 wins to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ).
The day on which the Super Bowl is played, now माना by कुछ a de facto अमरीकी national holiday, is called `` Super Bowl Sunday ``.
It is the second-largest day for U.S. food consumption, after थैंक्सगिविंग दिन.
In addition, the Super Bowl has frequently been the most watched American television broadcast of the year.
Super Bowl XLV, played in 2011, became the most-watched American television program in history, drawing an average audience of 111 million viewers and taking over the spot held by the previous साल 's सुपर Bowl, which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world, almost all being North American ऑडियंस, और is दूसरी to संघ फ़ुटबॉल ’s UEFA Champions League final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide.
Because of इसके ऊँची viewership, वाणिज्यिक airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the Super Bowl, companies regularly develop their most महंगी विज्ञापन for this broadcast.
As a result, watching and discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become a significant पहलू of the इवेंट.
In addition, many popular singers and musicians have performed during the इवेंट 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure.
Fiona is a feminine given name.
The name Fiona was invented, and first used, by the Scottish poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ), author of the Ossian poems, which he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources, when challenged, he never produced ).
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ), who authored several romantic works under the name `` Fiona Macleod ''.
The name has चूंकि become popular in England, Scotland and Ireland.
The name is considered to be a Latinised form of the गैलिक word fionn, meaning `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona, although these names हैं वरना unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ).
वहीँ is भी a modern tendency to equate the authentic Scottish Gaelic feminine name Fionnghal with Fiona.
The name Fiona is rising in popularity particularly in German -speaking countries.
Fiona was the 49th most popular name for baby girls born in 2008 in जर्मनी.
Fiona थी tied लिये तीसरा प्लेस in the ranking of most popular names for baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the United States in 2008, where it has ranked among the top 1,000 most लोकप्रिय names लिये लड़कियों चूंकि 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for girls of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in नई यॉर्क नगर, where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have been used in the United States.
The most commonly used language is अंग्रेज़ी.
There are also many languages indigenous to North America or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific प्रदेश.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the भाषाएं currently used ; several languages, including creoles and sign languages, have also developed in the United States.
Approximately 337 languages are spoken or signed by the जनसांख्यिकी, of जिससे 176 are indigenous to the area.
Fifty-two languages formerly बोला in the country 's territory are now extinct.
The variety of English spoken in the United States is known as American English.
English is the de facto national language of the United States, with 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother tongue, and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well ''.
However, no official language exists at the federal स्तर.
There have been several proposals to make English the national language in amendments to आव्रजन reform bills, but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact.
The हालात is काफी varied at the राज्य and territorial levels, with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure capacity, others adopting English alone, others officially adopting English as well as local languages, and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the दूसरी सबसे आम language in the country, and is spoken by over 12 % of the population.
The United States holds the world 's fifth largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by Mexico, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United States, long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of अधिक हाल hispanophone आप्रवासियों.
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in English, nearly all second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently, while only about half still speak Spanish.
According to the 2000 US census, people of German ancestry मेक up the largest सिंगल जातीय समूह in the United States, and the German language ranks fifth.
Italian, Polish, and French are still widely spoken among populations descending from आप्रवासियों इससे those देशों in the early 20th century, but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die.
Russian is also बोला by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one लाख अध्यक्षों each in the United States, almost entirely within recent immigrant populations.
Both languages, along with the varieties of the चाइनीज भाषा, जापानी, और कोरियाई, are now used in elections in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
Native अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in smaller pockets of the country, but these populations are decreasing, and the languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few native speakers, is an official language along with English at the राज्य स्तर in Hawaii.
The state government of Louisiana offers services and documents in French, as does New मैक्सिको in Spanish.
Besides English, Spanish, French, German, Navajo and other Native American languages, all other languages are usually learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the समय of स्वतंत्रता or learned through some form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand Am Sedan fender and क्वार्टर panel
On an automobile, a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is ज्ञात in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) is प्रायः माना the देह फलक जिससे goes between the rear door and the trunk and typically wraps around the wheel well ; however, the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; although, this varies with different makes and models.
A quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the uni-body structure or Monocoque.
बदलना of a sheet metal quarter panel typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this high amount of specialized labor, a quarter panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be लागू to finalize the original surface.
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated, in print only, shrops ) is a काउंटी in the West Midlands region of England.
It borders Wales to the west, Cheshire to the north, Staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east और herefordshire to the south.
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009, taking over from the previous county council and 5 ज़िला councils, और कवर most of the county.
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has महरूम a पृथक एकात्मक प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury, जिससे is culturally and historically important and is located in the centre of the county ; Telford, a new town in the east which was constructed around a number of older towns, most notably Wellington, Dawley and Madeley, which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the south.
The county has many further market towns, including Whitchurch in the north, Newport just to the north-east of telford, and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, covering ironbridge, coalbrookdale और a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, other notable historic industrial sites located around the county, such as at shrewsbury, Broseley, Snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal.
the shropshire पहाड़ियाँ क्षेत्रफल of Outstanding Natural Beauty covers about a quarter of the county, mainly in the south.
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties, with the population density of the Shropshire परिषद क्षेत्रफल होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in the county, though the highest hills are the Clee Hills, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
Wenlock Edge is another significant geographical and geological लैंडमार्क.
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's, Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve, one of the most important and best preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, Great Britain 's longest नदी, रनों through the county, exiting into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley.
Shropshire is landlocked, और साथ an क्षेत्रफल of, is England 's largest inland county.
The county flower is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat purposes, the county ( less the unitary district of telford और Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ), together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of Staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, from left : Kunal Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त, निर्मित and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting वर्ण have महरूम प्रचारित to अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ : लेस्ली winkle ( ऋतु 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting वर्ण, प्रत्येक of whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series, running from 1983 to 1987, about a fictional group of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune, while on the run from the फौज बाद होने ब्रांडेड as युद्ध अपराधियों लिये a `` अपराधों वे did n't commit ``.
A feature film based on the series was released by 20th Century Fox on जून 11, 2010.
A comic किताब श्रेणी, A-Team : Shotgun Wedding, began March 9, 2010.
Diana प्रिंस is a fictional character appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics.
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as the civilian and secret identity of the सुपरहीरो अचरज स्त्री.
The character was created by Charles moulton and Harry G. Peter.
Wat Phra Kaew, बैंकॉक, Thailand
There is no आधिकारिक राज्य धर्म in the थाई संविधान, which guarantees religious freedom for all Thai citizens, though the king is required by law to be Buddhist.
According to the last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are Buddhists of the थेरवाद परंपरा.
Muslims are the second largest religious group in Thailand at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat and part of Songkhla Chumphon have प्रबल मुस्लिम populations, consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay.
The southern tip of Thailand is mostly ethnic Malays.
Christians, मुख्यतः catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also live in the country 's cities, and are heavily engaged in retail commerce.
There is भी a छोटी यहूदी जातियाँ in थाईलैंड, डेटिंग वापस to the 17th सदी.
Since 2001, Muslim activists, generally वर्णित by the थाई सरकारी as terrorists or separatists, have rallied against the central government because of alleged corruption and ethnic bias on the part of officials.
Thailand 's Department of Religion, currently अंतर्गत the Ministry of Culture, is formally responsible for the registration of religious groups in Thailand URL_http which hold properties through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, along with the Immigration Police, over the work permits of प्रचारकों जो हैं `` प्रवासी religious workers '' of all religions.
A मान added कर ( vat ) is a form of consumption tax.
From the perspective of the buyer, it is a कर on the purchase price.
From that of the seller, it is a tax only on the value added to a product, सामग्री, or service, from an accounting point of view, by this stage of its manufacture or distribution.
The manufacturer remits to the सरकारी the अंतर between these two amounts, and retains the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the inputs.
The value added to a product by or with a business is the sale price charged to its customer, minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a sales tax in कि ultimately only the end consumer is taxed.
It differs from the sales tax in that, with the latter, the tax is collected and remitted to the सरकारी तभी एकबार, at the point of purchase by the end consumer.
With the VAT, collections, remittances to the government, and credits for taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products.
A referee कॉलिंग a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or her stick ऊपर the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal.
This can result in a stoppage of play or in a दंड.
In the rules of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग, high-sticking is defined as a penalty in Rule 60 and as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
A stoppage in play results if a high stick comes in contact with the puck and the team who touched it regains कंट्रोल of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a player touches the puck with a high stick and the opposing टोली gains control of the puck.
If the puck goes into the opposing net after coming into contact with a high stick, the goal is disallowed.
The level at which a stick is considered too high for a लक्ष्य is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a player knocks the पक into his own net with a high stick, the goal is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another player with a high stick.
The player is given a नाबालिग दंड जबतक his high stick caused an injury, in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
It is the referee 's discretion which penalty to assess : the rule calls for a double minor for an accidental injury, or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the विपक्ष खिलाड़ी थी दरअसल घायल ).
Injury is प्रायः decided by the high stick causing bleeding, but the presence of blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an extra दंड बगैर the presence of blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty.
Typical आधुनिक मेमोरी card reader, compatible with many common formats
A memory card reader is a device, typically having a USB interface, for accessing the data on a memory card ऐसे as a compactflash ( CF ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
Most card readers also offer write capability, and together with the card, this can function as a pen drive.
Some printers and personal computers have a built-in कार्ड reader.
A multi कार्ड रीडर is used for communication with more than one type of flash memory card.
मल्टी कार्ड पाठक do not have built-in memory capacity, but are able to accept multiple types and styles of memory cards.
The number of compatible memory cards varies इससे रीडर to reader and can include more than 20 different types.
The number of different memory cards that a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted, such as 35-in-1.
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the card slots : single card reader ( e.g. 1x SD-only ), multi card रीडर ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) और श्रेणी कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 4x sd only ).
Some kinds of मेमोरी ताश साथ their own USB functions do not need the card reader, such as the Intelligent Stick memory card, which can plug directly into a USB slot.
The USB device क्लास used is 0x08.
Bullying is detrimental to students ' well-being और विकास.
Bullying is the use of force or coercion to abuse or intimidate others.
the बर्ताव can be habitual and involve an imbalance of social or physical power.
It can include verbal harassment or threat, physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims, perhaps on grounds of race, religion, gender, sexuality, or ability.
If bullying is done by a group, it is called mobbing.
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
धमकाना can be पारिभाषित in many different ways.
The UK currently has no legal definition of bullying, while some U.S. states have laws against it.
Bullying consists of three basic types of abuse – emotional, verbal, and physical.
It typically involves हल्का methods of coercion such as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to more complex bullying in which the बुली may have एक or अधिक `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities.
Bullying in school and the कार्यस्थल is also referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed bullying in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of rankism.
A bullying culture can develop in any context in which human beings interact with each other.
This includes school, church, family, the कार्यस्थल, home, and neighborhoods.
Happy slapping in the Instituto Regional Federico Errázuriz, सांता क्रूज़, चिली
लौरा बुश and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4, 2007, in Austin, Texas, after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush during announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a result of an AMBER Alert when she was 8 weeks old in नवम्बर 1998.
An एम्बर Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE ) is a child abduction alert system originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's लापता : प्रसारण आपात जवाब, नामित लिये Amber Hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington, Texas in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia, `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii, `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; and Arkansas, `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ).
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations, Internet radio, satellite radio, टेलीविज़न स्टेशन, और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी प्रणाली और noaa Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition signs, the LED billboards which are located outside of newer Walgreens locations, along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as साफ चैनल Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google and Facebook to relay information regarding an AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic.
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS messages can visit बेतार एम्बर चेतावनियाँ, जिससे are offered by law as free messages.
In some states, the प्रदर्शक scrollboards in front of lottery terminals are also used.
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police संगठन ( in अनेक मामले, the state police or highway patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions.
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee, a वर्णन of the suspected abductor, and a description and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the lewinsky कांड.
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed काल्पनिक novels by अमरीकी लेखक P. C. Cast and her daughter Kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The series has been on the New York Times Best Seller list for 63 weeks and there are over seven million copies in print in उत्तर अमेरिका alone.
The sixth novel, Tempted, which went on sale on अक्तूबर 27, 2009 साथ a पहला मुद्रण of a लाख copies, entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
In January, 2010, Gezeichnet, a German translation of Marked, reached the # 1 स्पॉट on the der Spiegel bestseller list.
The series has so far sold more than ten million किताबे in 39 countries.
Burned was released on April 27, 2010, and like Tempted, it entered the USA Today बेस्टसेलर सूची कि सप्ताह at # 1.
Awakened, released in January, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
The series, which is प्रकाशित by st मार्टिन 's Press is planned to include twelve books.
In 2008, plans for a फिल्मी adaptation were also announced.
The tenth book in the series, Hidden, was released on अक्तूबर 16, 2012.
The दूसरी किताब in the novellas ( जिससे दे backgrounds on supporting characters ), Lenobia 's Vow, was released January 31, 2012.
Book eleven is currently called नाज़िल, और the casts have announced that two more novellas, Neferet’s Curse, planned to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged against the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks ) बाद पेरिस of ट्रॉय took हेलेन इससे उसके husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is one of the most important events in यूनानी mythology और रै महरूम narrated through अनेक works of यूनानी literature, most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey.
The Iliad relates a भाग of the पिछला year of the siege of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a cycle of epic poems, which have survived through fragments.
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and other works of Greek साहित्य, and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid.
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite, बाद eris, the देवी of strife and discord, gave them a golden apple, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the goddesses to Paris, who judged that Aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', चाहिए प्राप्त the apple.
In exchange, aphrodite made Helen, the most beautiful of all women and wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband Menelaus, led an expedition of achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many heroes, सहित the achaeans Achilles and Ajax, and the Trojans Hector and Paris, the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as slaves ) and desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods ' wrath.
Few of the achaeans लौटे safely to their homes and many founded colonies in distant shores.
The Romans later traced their origin to aeneas, एक of the Trojans, who was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical event that had taken place in the 13th or 12th century BC, and believed कि ट्रॉय थी स्तिथ in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By आधुनिक टाइम्स, दोनो the war and the city were widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced Schliemann कि ट्रॉय थी at hissarlik और schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars.
Whether there is any historical वास्तविकता पीछे the trojan युद्ध is an open question.
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the tale, though this may simply mean that the Homeric stories are a fusion of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks दौरान the कांस्य Age.
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical विरोध प्रायः तिथि it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC, often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194–1184 BC, which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa.
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their कारण, सहित सबसे prominently the circle-a and the black flag, although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement.
Since the revival of anarchism around the start of the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization movement, anarchist cultural symbols are widely present.
The वृहद palatine कनाल ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery, vein, and nerve between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity.
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and summer from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
The जलवायु of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the whole of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature ever अंकित on the मैदान on Earth : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station.
It is भी extremely dry ( technically a desert ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of precipitation per year.
Even so, on सबसे भाग of the महाद्वीप the snow rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet.
Weather fronts rarely घुस दूर into the continent.
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF ) with very cold, generally extremely dry weather throughout the year and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) with a short summer averaging ऊपर जमने, and much higher precipitation.
Current head coach Mike tomlin, दौरान the 2007 season
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स मताधिकार रै था 16 सिर कोच throughout इसके इतिहास.
Founded as the Pittsburgh pirates in, the name was changed to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel.
Joe बच परोसा दो separate terms as head coach and Walt Kiesling served three separate terms.
During the and seasons, due to the amount of players who fought in World War II, the Steelers combined their team with Philadelphia and Chicago, respectively.
During these seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy Neale and Phil Handler, who have not been included within this list.
struggling for much of the franchise 's early years, the team 's first season with more wins than losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in.
In, under Sutherland, the Steelers played their first playoff game against the फिलाडेल्फिया Eagles.
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their entire professional coaching careers with the franchise, including John McNally, Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll, who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of only four men to coach the same team for 23 years, चक Noll retired in.
Noll is also the only coach in National Football League history to जीत चार Super Bowls.
Bill Cowher, Noll 's बदलना, coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win आए in सुपर कटोरी xliii, while head coached by Mike Tomlin, the team 's current head coach.
In criminal law, fraud is intentional deception made for personal gain or to क्षति another individual ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a crime and a सिविल विधि उल्लंघन, हालांकि the specific criminal law definition varies by legal jurisdiction.
Defrauding लोगों or entities of money or valuables is a common purpose of fraud.
A hoax also involves deception, but without the इरादे of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a civil action for उल्लंघन of contract or specific performance of a contract.
Fraud is a आधार लिये निष्पक्ष jurisdiction.
Passover, or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah, Pesakh, Yiddish : Peysekh, Paysakh, Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival.
Historically, together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ), Passover is one of the तीन यात्राएं festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem.
Samaritans स्टिल मेक this pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim, but only men participate in public worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts for either seven days ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk, thus the first day of Passover only begins after dusk of the 14th of nisan and ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the Passover Seder when the 15th of Nisan has begun.
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover takes place in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is one of the most widely observed Jewish holidays.
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by God from गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र that was ruled by the Pharaohs, and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses.
It commemorates the story of the exodus as वर्णित in the यहूदी Bible especially in the Book of Exodus, in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the narrative of the Exodus, the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the प्राचीन Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts of their homes with the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and, upon देखकर इस, the स्पिरिट of the रब knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the holiday.
There is some debate over where the term is दरअसल derived from.
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites, it is कहा that they left in such a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
In commemoration, for the duration of Passover no leavened bread is eaten, for which reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened ब्रैड ''.
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened ब्रैड ) is eaten during Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday.
हैली 's धूमकेतु or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from धरती, और thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be brighter and more spectacular, but will appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, Babylonian, and medieval European chroniclers, but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the समय.
The comet 's periodicity was first संकल्पित in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the भीतरी सौर System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided आंकड़ा जिससे substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
Anti-communism is opposition to communism.
Organized anti-communism developed in reaction to the rise of communism, especially after the 1917 October क्रान्ति in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists reject the concept of historical materialism, which is a central idea in Marxism.
Anti-communists reject the मार्क्सवादी विश्वास कि capitalism will be followed by socialism and communism, just as feudalism was followed by capitalism.
anti-communists सवाल the वैध of the Marxist claim that the socialist state will `` wither away '' when it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society.
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of Bolshevik rule, while not as extreme as that during Joseph Stalin 's rule, was still severe by reasonable standards, citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret police, which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and फासीवाद as सर्वसत्तावाद, seeing similarity between the actions of communist and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was responsible for tens of लाखो of मौतों दौरान the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to power have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political विपक्ष.
These opponents claim that most Communist देशों have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's socialist stage of economy to an ideal communist stage.
Rather, Communist governments have been accused of creating a new ruling class ( a nomenklatura ), साथ शक्तियां और privileges वृहद than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes.
Gil Heron ( 9 अप्रैल 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer.
He was the first black player to play for Scottish club Celtic, and was the father of poet and musician Gil Scott-Heron.
He died in Detroit of a heart attack on 27 नवम्बर 2008.
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a species of legume native to East Asia, widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous uses.
The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a pulse by the UN Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of protein for animal feeds and many prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is another product of प्रसंस्करण the soybean crop.
For उदाहरण, सोयाबीन उत्पाद ऐसे as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in many meat and dairy analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly अधिक protein per acre than most other uses of land.
Traditional nonfermented food उपयोग of soybeans include soy milk, and from the latter tofu and tofu skin.
fermented भोजन include soy sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others.
The oil is used in many industrial अनुप्रयोग.
The main producers of soy are the United राज्य ( 35 % ), Brazil ( 27 % ), Argentina ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
हैरिसन घाट ( born July 13, 1942 ) is an American film actor and producer.
He is famous for his performances as Han Solo in the original Star Wars trilogy and the title अक्षर of the इंडियाना जोन्स फिल्मी श्रेणी.
Ford is also known for उसके भूमिकाएँ as रिक deckard in ब्लेड Runner, John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger.
उसके करियर रै spanned छह दशकों और includes roles in several Hollywood blockbusters, including Presumed Innocent, The Fugitive, Air Force One, and What Lies Beneath.
At one point, four of the top six box-office hits of all time शामिल one of his roles.
Five of his films have महरूम inducted into the National Film Registry.
In 1997, Ford was ranked No. 1 in Empire `` The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time '' list.
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's films total over US $ 3.5 billion, with worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making घाट the तीसरा उच्चतम grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is the husband of अभिनेत्री Calista Flockhart.
A tube of chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in अनेक देशों विश्वव्यापी.
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped होठ ; hence the name.
Many varieties also include sunscreen in अनुक्रम to prevent sunburn.
Due to its लोकप्रियता, the term has become a genericized trademark.
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tube and applied in the same manner as lipstick.
However, the term is still a registered ट्रेडमार्क, साथ अधिकारों exclusively owned by Pfizer.
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom, the उत्पाद 's main competitor is Lypsyl, made by Novartis Consumer Health, which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends that familiar objects like tables and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, और as a परिणाम can not exist without being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, for physical objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be आभास `` ).
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction, an important premise in his argument for immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published his first major work,, in which he discussed the limitations of human दृष्टि और advanced the theory that the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but light and colour.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which, बाद इसके ग़रीब रिसेप्शन, he rewrote in संवाद रूप और प्रकाशित under the title Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous in 1713.
In this book, Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of mind ' ), while Hylas ( Greek : 'matter ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, in particular John Locke.
Berkeley argued against Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of absolute space, time and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ), published 1721.
His arguments were a precursor to the दृश्य of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published Alciphron, a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he प्रकाशित the Analyst, an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the development of mathematics.
His last major philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by advocating the medicinal use of tar water, and then continues to discuss a wide range of topics सहित विज्ञान, दर्शनशास्त्र, और धर्मशास्त्र.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of perception, the अंतर between प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक qualities, and the importance of language.
Qingdao ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a major city in eastern Shandong province, Eastern China, with a जनसांख्यिकी of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level cities, is home to परिचय 4,896,000 निवासियों in 2010.
It borders Yantai to the northeast, weifang to the west and Rizhao to the southwest.
Qīng ( ) in चाइनीज means `` green '' or `` lush '', while dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying आरपार the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea, Qingdao is a major seaport, naval base, and industrial centre.
It is also the site of the tsingtao Brewery.
The world 's longest sea bridge, the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge, links the main urban area of चिंगदाओ साथ Huangdao district, straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas.
Qingdao is नामित चीन 's most livable city.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a सिंगल पहचाना species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ), or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ).
In colloquial speech, APMV is more commonly referred to as बस `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis थी described, it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses.
mimivirus रै a large and complex genome compared with most other viruses.
Mimivirus, short for `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to reflect its large आकार और apparent Gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed विरोध between the people of Mexico and the Spanish colonial authorities which started on September 16, 1810.
The movement, which became known as the Mexican War of Independence, was led by Mexican-born spaniards, mestizos and Amerindians who sought independence from Spain.
It started as an आदर्शवादी peasants ' विद्रोह against their colonial masters, but ended as an unlikely alliance between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents.
Crohn 's disease, also known as Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis, is a प्रकार of inflammatory bowel disease that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be continuous ), or weight loss, but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract ऐसे as स्किन rashes, गठिया, सूजन of the नजर, थकान, and lack of concentration.
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological और बैक्टीरियल factors in genetically susceptible individuals.
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in जिससे the देह 's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been वर्णित as an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in the पास्ट ; recent investigators have described it as an immune deficiency state.
There is a genetic association with crohn 's बीमारी, primarily with variations of the NOD2 gene and its protein, which senses bacterial cell walls.
सहोदर of प्रभावित individuals are at higher risk.
Males and महिलाओं हैं equally affected.
Smokers are two times अधिक likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 and 600,000 people in North America.
Prevalence estimates लिये उत्तरी Europe have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, although the disease can occur at कोई आयु.
There is no known फार्मास्युटिकल or surgical cure for Crohn 's disease.
Treatment options are restricted to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission, and preventing relapse.
The बीमारी थी नामित बाद gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn, who, in 1932, together with two other colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, described a series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an incomplete सूची of the tallest buildings and structures by country.
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures for each country, and where appropriate, it भी अंक to अधिक विस्तृत country-specific lists.
Rough and Ready is a census-designated प्लेस in नेवाडा County, California, United States.
it is स्तिथ वेस्ट of Grass Valley, California, approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento.
The population was 963 at the 2010 census.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, created by three former PayPal employees in February 2005, on which users can upload, view और share वीडियो.
The company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video सामग्री, सहित फिल्म क्लिप्स, tv क्लिप्स, और म्यूज़िक videos, as well as amateur content such as video blogging, short original videos, and educational videos.
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals, although media corporations including CBS, the BBC, Vevo, Hulu, and other organizations offer some of उनके सामग्री via the site, as part of the YouTube partnership program.
Unregistered users can watch videos, while registered users can upload an असीमित number of videos.
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content are available only to registered users at तनिक 18 सालो old.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC was bought by google लिये us $ 1.65 अरब, और operates as a subsidiary of Google.
Sister Act is a musical written by Cheri steinkellner और विधेयक steinkellner with additional book material by Douglas Carter Beane, with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 फिल्मी comedy of the same name.
the 2009 West End production was produced by Stage Entertainment, Whoopi Goldberg, and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC.
Goldberg is also a producer of the 2011 ब्रॉडवे अनुकूलन.
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application प्रोग्रामिंग interfaces ( APIs ) for handling tasks related to multimedia, especially game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
Originally, the names of these APIs all began with Direct, such as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
The name DirectX was coined as shorthand term for all of these APIs ( the X standing in for the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console, the X was used as the basis of the नाम एक्सबॉक्स to indicate कि the console was based on DirectX technology.
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed लिये the एक्सबॉक्स ऐसे as xinput और the cross-platform ऑडियो सृष्टि Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video games for microsoft खिड़कियाँ, microsoft एक्सबॉक्स, Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other software अनुप्रयोग लिये कल्पना and graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM engineering.
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX, it is common to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably.
The DirectX तन्त्र विकास kit ( sdk ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary form, along with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding.
Originally, the runtimes were only संस्थापित by games or explicitly by the user.
खिड़कियाँ 95 किया नहीं लॉन्च with DirectX, but DirectX was included with Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2.
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, as has every version of Windows released since.
The SDK is उपलब्धियाँ as a free download.
While the runtimes are proprietary, closed-source software, source code is provided for सबसे of the SDK samples.
starting साथ the रिलीज of खिड़कियाँ 8 डेवलपर पूर्वावलोकन, डाइरेक्टएक्स sdk रै महरूम एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ sdk.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows विस्टा और नए क्युकी प्रत्येक of ये नई संस्करण थी निर्मित to depend upon the new Windows Display Driver Model that was introduced for Windows Vista.
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory manager supporting आभासीकरण of ग्राफिक्स हार्डवेयर for various applications and services like the Desktop Window Manager.
quetzaltenango, भी commonly known by its indigenous name, Xelajú, or more commonly, Xela, is the second largest city of Guatemala.
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango Department and the नगरपालिका seat of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It has an अनुमानित population of 224,703.
The population is परिचय 61 % स्वदेशी or Amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain घाटी at an उन्नयन of 2,330 meters ( 7,655 ft ) above sea level at its lowest part.
It may reach above 2,400 मीटर भीतर the city.
The नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
Municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá, Cantel, Almolonga, Zunil, el palmar, concepción chiquirichapa, San Mateo, La Esperanza, Olintepeque, and San Andrés Xecul.
All these municipalities हैं भाग of the विभाग of Quetzaltenango, except San Andrés Xecul which is a part of the Department of Totonicapán.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
The literary history of gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these were used as source सामग्री for a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, ज्ञात as the `` बूढ़ा Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` he जो Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of approximately two thirds of इस longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
Some of the best नक़ल were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the लोगों of uruk.
Together, they journey to the Cedar Mountain to शिकस्त Humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven, which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish gilgamesh लिये spurning her advances.
As a punishment for ये क्रियाएँ, the gods sentence Enkidu to death.
The second half of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of eternal life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking you will never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to him death, but life they retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his मौत, क्युकी of उसके ग्रेट भवन projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has महरूम अनूदित into अनेक different languages, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There are numerous debates over who created the first video game, साथ the जवाब depending largely on कैसा video games are defined.
The evolution of video games represents a उलझे वेब of अनेक different industries, including scientific, computer, arcade, and consumer electronics.
The `` वीडियो '' in `` वीडियो खेल `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
With the popular catch phrase use of the term `` video game '', the term now implies all display types, formats, and platforms.
Historians have also sought to बायपास the समस्या by instead using the more specific `` digital games '' descriptive.
This term leaves out the earlier analog-based कंप्यूटर games.
This is a list of best-selling video game franchises that have बेची or shipped at least 5 million copies.
Unless otherwise stated, numbers indicate worldwide units sold, ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount.
The exception are the ones specifying shipments, which have निम्नतर पूर्वता than others listing sales.
Franchise sales include expansion packs even though they are not माना पूरा video games.
For best-selling individual video games, see सूची of best-selling video games.
The बिक्री आंकड़े दिए नीचे do नहीं include arcade game sales, which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– This color indicates a sub-series of a larger video game franchise.
This does not necessarily apply लिये श्रेणी कि are not video game-based.
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( September 1, 1933 – सितंबर 13, 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas.
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of Texas, when she delivered the keynote पता at the 1988 Democratic National Convention.
Richards served as the 45th Governor of Texas from 1991 to 1995 and थी पराजित लिये re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
Ann Richards was the दूसरी female governor of Texas.
Data निष्पादन रोकथाम ( DEP ) is a security feature included in modern operating systems.
It is known to be available in लिनक्स, मैक os x, आईओएस, microsoft खिड़कियाँ और Android operating systems and is intended to prevent an application or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region.
This helps prevent certain exploits कि स्टोर कोड via a buffer overflow, for example.
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable, and software-enforced dep साथ limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against निष्पादन of कोड in आंकड़ा पृष्ठों, लकिन instead counters SEH overwrite, another type of attack.
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ), on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP Service Pack 2, जबकि ठहराना introduced dep when they moved to x86 in 2006.
Example illustration of two आम futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism, which is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader sense for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of computer games, comics and animations, which includes characters that show both प्राथमिक यौन characteristics.
But in today 's language it refers लगभग exclusively for characters who have an overall feminine appearance.
In that case the term is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ), which is occasionally also used as term लिये the works itself.
Early CAPTCHAs such as these, उत्पन्न by the EZ-Gimpy program, were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to create a distorted पृष्ठभूमि और high levels of warping on the text, might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line.
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together, as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
कुछ captchas कोशिश to utilize the क्षमता of लोगों to देखिए three-dimensional वस्तुएँ.
On this image, symbols are drawn with lines of अलग मोटाई to make an effect of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in computing as an attempt to ensure कि the response is generated by a human being.
The process प्रायः involves a कंप्यूटर asking a user to complete a simple test which the computer is able to grade.
These tests are designed to be easy for a कंप्यूटर to generate but difficult for a computer to solve, but again easy for a human.
If a correct solution is received, it can be presumed to have महरूम डाला by a human.
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the उपयोक्ता to type letters and/or digits from a distorted image that appears on the screen.
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites, since a normal human can easily read a CAPTCHA, while the bot can not process the image letters and therefore, can not answer properly, or at all.
Although most captchas हैं अक्षर तस्वीरें randomly उत्पन्न, अनेक of उन्हें have become मुश्किल भी लिये a human to read, so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal pictures ), which is simple for a human being to process, and therefore easy to pick, while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture, it can not easily guess the animal.
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by लुइस वोन ahn, मैनुएल ब्लम, निकोलस J. हॉपर, and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym based on the word `` capture '' and standing for `` Completely स्वचालित पब्लिक Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the पद on 15 अक्तूबर 2004, लकिन the ट्रेडमार्क अनुप्रयोग was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing test, because it is administered by a machine and targeted at a human, in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer, explorer, conservationist, filmmaker, innovator, scientist, photographer, author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered समुद्री conservation and was a member of the Académie française.
KFC ( केंटकी fried मुर्गा ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` American icon '', it is the world 's दूसरी largest रेस्तरां कड़ी overall ( as measured by sales ) after McDonald 's, with over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories.
the कम्पनी is a subsidiary of यम !
Brands, a restaurant company which also owns Pizza Hut और Taco Bell.
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders, who began selling fried chicken इससे उसके roadside restaurant in Corbin, Kentucky during the Great Depression.
Sanders was one of the first people to see the potential of the रेस्तरां फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग concept, with the first `` Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952.
The मताधिकार popularized मुर्गा in the fast food industry, thereby diversifying the market and challenging the dominance of the hamburger.
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The company 's rapid expansion saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage, and in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John Y. Brown, Jr. and Jack Massey.
केएफसी थी one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally, opening outlets in England, Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
throughout the 1970s और 1980s, केएफसी अनुभवी mixed fortunes domestically, as it went through a series of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business.
In the जल्दी 1970s, केएफसी थी बेची to the आत्माओं कड़ heublein, जो यहूद लिया over by the r.J. रेनॉल्ड्स खाना और तम्बाकू संगुटिका, जो बेची the कड़ी to पेप्सिको.
The chain continued to expand overseas however, and in 1987 KFC became the first पश्चिमी रेस्तरां chain to open in China.
The chain has चूंकि विस्तारित rapidly in China, and the country is now the company 's most profitable market.
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as Tricon Global Restaurants, which बाद बदला इसके नाम to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces और विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा सैंडविच and wraps, salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw, desserts and soft drinks, often supplied by PepsiCo.
Its most famous product is दबाव fried chicken pieces, seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices.
The exact nature of these ingredients is unknown, and represents a notable व्यापार रहस्य.
Larger portions of fried chicken are served in a distinctive गत्ता `` बाल्टी '', जिससे has become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '', which has since been replaced by `` nobody करता मुर्गा जैसे केएफसी '' और `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a मूक c ) or coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 species of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments.
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized कोशिकाएं कि वे उपयोग mainly for capturing prey.
Their लाशें consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick.
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps, both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
दोनो फ़ॉर्म have a single orifice and body cavity that are used for digestion and respiration.
Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and सरल receptors.
Several free-swimming cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes.
Not सब cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae, but कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians were for a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing जागरूकता of उनके मतभेद caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa, a diverse group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms, and has both sessile members such as Hydra and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War.
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of scyphozoa, और there is debate about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size इससे प्लवक to पशु अनेक टाइम्स larger than themselves, but many obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae, and a few are parasites.
Many are preyed upon by other animals including starfish, sea slugs, fish and turtles.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae, support some of the world 's most productive ecosystems, और protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals are almost entirely restricted to warm, उथले समुद्री waters, अन्य cnidarians live in the depths, in polar seas and in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed about, and other fossils show that corals may have been उपस्थित shortly पहले और diversified a few लाख years later.
Fossils of cnidarians कि do not build mineralized structures are very rare.
Scientists currently think that cnidarians, ctenophores और bilaterians हैं अधिक closely related to calcareous sponges than these are to other sponges, and that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded कि cnidarians, हालांकि considered more `` primitive '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
The Aztec Pyramid at St. cecilia acatitlan, मैक्सिको State.
Aztec jade mask depicting the god Xipe Totec.
Large ceramic प्रतिमा of an एज़टेक Eagle Warrior
एज़टेक cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico, particularly those समूह जो spoke the Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( बहुवचन ) औसत `` लोगों from Aztlan ``, a mythological place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of the time, and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people.
Often the पद `` एज़टेक '' refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico City ), situated on an island in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states, the Acolhuas of Texcoco और the tepanecs of tlacopan, who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
In other contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples, who shared large parts of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua and Tepanecs, and who often also used the नावातल भाषा as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an Aztec civilization including all the particular cultural patterns common for most of the peoples inhabiting Central मैक्सिको in the लेट postclassic काल.
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the capital of the एज़टेक ट्रिपल Alliance, the city of Tenochtitlan, was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco.
The Triple Alliance formed a उपनदी साम्राज्य expanding इसके राजनैतिक आधिपत्य दूर परे the Valley of Mexico, conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica.
At its pinnacle, Aztec culture had rich and complex mythological and religious परंपराओं, as खूब as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along with a large number of नावातल बोलना indigenous allies, conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City on the site of the ruined Aztec capital, from जहाँ वे proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America.
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors ऐसे as hernán cortés और बर्नल díaz del Castillo ; and especially from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec culture and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language, such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants.
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी पत्रकार, author, and television personality.
He is the प्राथमिक लंगर of the CNN news show Anderson Cooper 360°.
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York City studio ; however, Cooper often broadcasts live on location for breaking news stories.
As of September 2011, he also serves as मेजबान of उसके own eponymous syndicated daytime talk show, Anderson Live, which will be cancelled at the end of the second season.
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each बैंड रै a चौडाई of 1 standard deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 rule
Cumulative probability of a normal distribution साथ expected value 0 and standard deviation 1.
In statistics and probability theory, standard deviation ( represented by the symbol सिग्मा, σ ) shows कैसा much विभिन्नता or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ), or expected value.
a कम मानक विचलन indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक tend to be बहुत बंद to the औसत ; ऊँची मानक विचलन indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक हैं स्प्रेड आउट over a विशाल दायरा of values.
The मानक विचलन of a यादृच्छिक परिवर्तनीय, सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी, आंकड़ा नियत, or संभाव्यता वितरण is the वर्गाकार रूट of इसके variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust than the average absolute deviation.
A useful property of standard deviation is that, नापसंद variance, it is expressed in the same units as the data.
नोट, however, that for measurements with percentage as unit, the standard deviation will have percentage points as unit.
In addition to expressing the variability of a population, standard deviation is commonly used to measure confidence in सांख्यिकीय conclusions.
For example, the margin of error in polling data is determined by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the परिणाम if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times.
The reported margin of error is typically about twice the मानक deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data, and only effects that fall far outside the range of मानक विचलन हैं माना statistically significant – normal random error or variation in the measurements is in this way distinguished from causal variation.
Standard deviation is also important in finance, where the standard deviation on the rate of return on an निवेश is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of data from a population is available, the मानक deviation of the population can be estimated by a modified quantity called the `` sample standard deviation ''.
When the नमूना is the entire population, its unmodified standard deviation is called the `` population standard deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically important root crops in the Andean region of South America, दूसरी तभी to the आलू.
It is known there with the common name of papa lisa, but also by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ), olluco ( Peru ), chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
The leaf and the tuber are edible, similar to spinach and the potato, क्रमशः.
They are known to contain high levels of protein, calcium, और केरोटीन.
Papalisa were used by the Incas prior to arrival of europeans in South America.
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` Earth रत्नों '' in New Zealand, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
ulluco tubers in New Zealand
An April 24, 1851 poster warning the `` colored people of Boston '' परिचय पुलिसकर्मियों एक्टिंग as स्लेव catchers.
The Fugitive Slave Law or भगोड़े स्लेव अधिनियम थी passed by the United States Congress on September 18, 1850, as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
This was one of the most controversial acts of the 1850 सुलह और heightened Northern fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
It declared that all runaway slaves were, upon capture, to be लौटे to their masters.
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' for the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves.
Frank Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born October 30, 1951 ) is the U.S. प्रतिनिधि लिये, सेवारत चूंकि 1993.
He is a member of the लोकतांत्रिक Party.
He previously represented the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993.
trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo from New Orleans, Louisiana in the United States.
The group was marketed as a gospel alternative to R & B girl groups such as Destiny 's Child और tlc.
trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold over 2.5 million albums.
In 1998, the group released their first album entitled trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे debut at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts.
the एल्बम प्रदर्शित the songs `` God 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do n't तुम Weep ''.
The album later became certified सुनहरा.
In 1999, Terri Brown left the group and was later replaced by singer Adrian Anderson.
During that year, the group अंकित और released उनके दूसरी album, Spiritual Love.
the एल्बम became the group 's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts.
The album contained the singles `` put Your Hands '' and `` My Body ''.
In 2002, the group released their third album The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
In 2007, the group left GospoCentric Records and signed a record deal with स्पिरिट उठती म्यूज़िक.
In late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके पांचवां एल्बम t57, which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel Albums, # 5 on the Top Christian charts, और # 12 on the Top R & B charts.
The संयुक्त राज्य संघीय earned income tax credit or earned income credit ( EITC or EIC ) is a refundable tax credit for low- and medium-income individuals and couples, primarily for those who have qualifying children.
When the credit exceeds the amount of taxes owed, it results in a tax refund to those who claim the क्रेडिट.
This credit is provided to offset the burden of social सुरक्षा कर और also to promote an incentive to work.
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ), the age, relationship, and shared residency requirements must be met, as well as some other requirements.
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040 can be used to अर्जी eic बगैर qualifying children.
To claim the credit with qualifying children, 1040A or 1040 must be used, as well as attaching Schedule EIC.
EIC phases in slowly, has a medium-length plateau, and then phases out more slowly than it phased in.
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ), it is always preferable to have one more dollar of actual salary or wages ( although technically, since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments, it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
For tax साल 2011, the अधिकतम eic लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or couple filing without qualifying children was $ 464.
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094, with two children थी $ 5,112, and with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
ये amounts are indexed annually for inflation.
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the United States regarding whether उठाने the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a list of halftime shows held at the National Football League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition, the Super Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to pop culture, which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest.
In most years since the mid-1980s, the halftime show of the Super कटोरी रै प्रदर्शित लोकप्रिय रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों and other well-known celebrities.
It रै measurably increased television viewers during and after the halftime show.
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in American television annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States alone.
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music types, including pop, rock, classic rock, country, hip hop, rap, blues, and soul.
In some years, short skits or drama scenes are acted आउट on a स्टेज.
The प्रदर्शन समूह up साथ लोगों has performed at the most Super Bowl halftime shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen ratings, Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in इतिहास, साथ 114 million viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show performance was the second most viewed दिखाएँ in history.
It is listed on the Guinness World रिकॉर्ड as the largest TV audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance.
International Men 's दिन ( imd ) is an annual international event celebrated on 19th November.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago, the day and इसके कार्यक्रम find support from a variety of individuals and groups in Australia, the Caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, Director of Women and Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said of IMD, `` This is an बेहतरीन विचार और होता give some gender balance. ''
She added that UNESCO was looking forward to cooperating with the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's Day include focusing on men 's and boys ' स्वास्थ्य, improving gender relations, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an अवसर to हाइलाइट discrimination against men and boys and to celebrate their achievements and contributions, in particular for their contributions to community, family, marriage, and child care.
The broader and ultimate उद्देश्य of the इवेंट is to promote basic humanitarian values.
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Seychelles, Burundi, Hungary, Ireland, Isle of Man, Ghana, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine, France, Italy, Pakistan, Cuba, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा, st. किट्स और नेविस, st. लूसिया, Grenada and Cayman Islands, on 19 November, and global support for the celebration is broad.
घाटी Village ParkValley
Village is a district in the सैन फर्नांडो घाटी region of Los Angeles, California.
The median age of its population, at 36, is `` old for the city of Los Angeles. '' and its average household size of two people is low, compared to other parts of the city.
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of changes that occur in इंसान beings over the course of their life span.
Originally concerned with infants and children, the field has expanded to include adolescence, adult development, वृद्धावस्था, और the entire life span.
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving, moral understanding, and conceptual समझना ; भाषा acquisition ; social, personality, and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation.
developmental मनोविज्ञान शामिल मुद्दे ऐसे as the extent to जिससे development occurs through the gradual accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like development, or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience.
Many researchers are interested in the बातचीत between निजी characteristics, the individual 's behavior, and environmental factors including social context, and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach.
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields, including : educational psychology, child psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other basic research fields in psychology including social psychology, cognitive psychology, ecological psychology, and comparative psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional character who first appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी sitcom All in the Family.
Joey Stivic was the son और तभी चाइल्ड of माइक stivic ( निभाई by रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया Stivic ( played by Sally Struthers ), and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
The अक्षर पहला appeared as a नवजात baby in a two-part episode of All in the Family which aired in December 1975.
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time, Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ), the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस in a अतिथि appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In इस उदाहरण, the character was played by child actor Dick Billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age.
With Gloria now अलग इससे माइक, वो लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's Place with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home. ''
In this एपीसोड, जॉय was played by Christopher Johnston.
Joey Stivic was a regular character on the All in the Family spin-off series ग्लोरिया in 1982 और 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had moved to Upstate New York in order to work as an assistant veterinarian, the भाग of जॉय stivic थी निभाई by ten-year-old कर्ता ईसाई Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared इससे प्रधान समय टेलीविज़न for 11 years, until the character made one last appearance on 704 Hauser, a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who had moved into the old Bunker home, years after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` आर्ची Bunker 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll. ''
The doll inspired mild विवाद at the समय, and is a collectors ' item today.
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl game played on January 1, 2011, as भाग of the 2010 college football season.
Played in Pasadena, California, the TCU Horned मेंढक of the पहाड़ West Conference defeated the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association थी the आयोजक of the game.
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor और the खेल was officially named `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''.
This game marked the first time a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in, and won, the रोज़ Bowl in its 97 years.
The प्रतियोगिता थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on केबल टेलीविज़न station ESPN with a radio broadcast on ESPN Radio and XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
Coverage began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) with kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ).
This marked the first time that the game was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( स्थलीय टेलीविज़न ) चूंकि the खेल prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl, which was the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & Memories, was a contractual sell-out, with 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams and conferences.
Ticket prices for all seats in the Rose Bowl are सूचीबद्ध at $ 145.
The remaining टिकटें गई to the Tournament of Roses members, sponsors, City of Pasadena residents, and the general public.
The Rose कटोरी स्टेडियम capacity is listed at approximately 91,000.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, which announced that the thirteen American colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र राज्य, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
बजाय वे अभी formed a नई nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
John Adams was a नेता in pushing for independence, which was unanimously approved on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document, which congress would edit to उपज the फाइनल संस्करण.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is मनाये on जुलाई 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the text on July 4, Congress issued the घोषणा of Independence in several forms.
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that थी widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
हालांकि the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the date of its signing was August 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other copies have महरूम निकला इससे इस असली दस्तावेज़.
The स्त्रोत और निर्वचन of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii, and by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since then, it has come to be considered a major बयान on इंसान rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, कि among ये हैं Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '', containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to which the United राज्य should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the घोषणा to be the न्यास of उसके political philosophy, and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन people throughout the world.
Chitty chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 British musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel.
The film 's script is by Roald Dahl and Ken Hughes and its songs by the Sherman भाइयो.
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus Potts and Sally Ann Howes as truly scrumptious.
The film was directed by Ken Hughes and produced by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears पर्यवेक्षित the special effects.
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music, while the musical संख्याएँ यहूद मंचन by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a severe कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life.
environments subject to arid climates tend to lack vegetation and are called xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places include most of Africa and parts of South America and Central America.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign, which is संबद्ध साथ the constellation Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 and 125.25 उपाधि of celestial longitude, which the Sun transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently from July 21 to अगस्त 9.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential चुनाव, आयोजित on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon, while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy, सीनेटर इससे मैसाचुसेट्स.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election after serving the अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all fifty of the वर्तमान संयुक्त States participated.
A number of factors explain क्यों the election was so close.
Kennedy gained since there थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the incumbent Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes कि Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched निक्सन 's.
In the end, Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight, and he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination, secure endorsements, and, with the aid of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to मिलेंगी आउट the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president, a phenomenon that has been दोहराया एकबार, by बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो मामले, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
Sherwood is a city in Washington County, Oregon, United States.
Located in the southeast corner of the county, it is a residential जातियाँ in the tualatin Valley southwest of Portland.
The जनसांख्यिकी was 11,791 at the 2000 census.
According to the 2010 census, the जनसांख्यिकी was 18,205 residents.
indirectly नामित लिये the Sherwood Forest in England, it was first incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was हस्ताक्षरित into विधि by अध्यक्ष George W. Bush on October 26, 2001.
The शीर्षक of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting ( and ) Strengthening America ( by ) Providing Appropriate Tools Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th, significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions, particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration अधिकारियों in निमाड़ and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism, thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT act’s विस्तारित law enforcement powers can be applied.
On May 26, 2011, President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets एक्सटेंशन अधिनियम of 2011, a four-year एक्सटेंशन of तीन कुंजी प्रावधानों in the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम जबकि he थी in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps, खोज of कारोबार रिकॉर्ड ( the `` पुस्तकालयों records provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups.
Republican नेताओ questioned if the use of the Autopen met the constitutional requirements for signing a bill into law.
A house in महारानी Anne style at 223 Avenue A.
Snohomish is a city in snohomish काउंटी, Washington, United States.
The population थी 9,098 at the 2010 census.
The mayor of Snohomish is karen guzak, और the City Manager is Larry Bauman.
Snohomish prides itself लिये इसके ऐतिहासिक शहर, और थी एकबार ज्ञात for its many antique shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest. ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish Historic District, which is सूचीबद्ध on the नेशनल पंजीकरण of Historic Places.
Many houses bear plaques with the साल the house was built and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied it.
एकबार प्रत्येक साल, the नगर देता टुर of the historic houses ; one of them, the Blackman House, is a year-round museum.
A सामान्य विमानन एयरफील्ड, घनघोर एयरफील्ड, is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान band that was formed in Charlottesville, Virginia, United States, in 1991.
The founding members were singer-songwriter and guitarist Dave matthews, bassist stefan Lessard, drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist soon after the band was formed.
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to जटिलताओं इससे चोटों sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of béla fleck और the Flecktones has since filled Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist.
Rashawn Ross and Tim Reynolds have भी become full-time touring members of the band.
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, earning the band their fifth लगातार number-one debut— बनाना उन्हें the दूसरी बैंड behind Metallica to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, was released in 2012, and also debuted at number one on the Billboard chart.
As of 2010, the डेव matthews Band has sold over 30 million records worldwide.
The band is known for their annual summer-long tours of the United States and Europe, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show.
This portion of the tour has become a stamp of DMB and has grown with the band since Fenton Williams began working with them in the early 1990s.
After twenty consecutive years of touring the band announced that it होता लो the गर्मियाँ of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews Band has won one GRAMMY Award, and was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
According to Julian Bond, `` they sell out the largest arenas on Earth, but frequently give their music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A अध्याय इससे an अलिखित रोमांस is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott, about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work was first प्रकाशित in a New York newspaper in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In her खाता, alcott provides the real people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises.
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb, '' while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon शेर ; '' अबीगैल May Alcott, Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts her father as dominated by his more forceful partner, and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers.
The मेन of the जातियाँ खर्च their time in pointless debates while Sister Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at harvest time, when the grain crop is threatened by an approaching storm.
In Alcott 's words, `` About the time the grain was ready to house, कुछ कॉल of the Oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
Sister Hope organizes the only available help, three little लड़कियों और a लड़के, and manages to save the crop.
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns cold, when it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though Timon is अप्रसन्न to learn that life among them is `` all work and no play. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the एंटरप्राइज़ ; after days of despair he begins to eat again only when he realizes that his family needs him.
सिस्टर आशा finds a way for them to subsist and persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in her novel, published in the same year as `` अनुभवातीत जंगली Oats. ''
`` Transcendental Wild जई '' रै महरूम reprinted in several modern editions.
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the Sawatch Range, part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost town of Holy Cross नगर और in त्रिभुज काउंटी.
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face.
Under USDA Forest Service administration, the पहाड़ थी proclaimed `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11, 1929.
The monument was transferred to the नेशनल Park Service in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the number of visitors to the mountain and the nearby `` pilgrim 's हट '' था waned, और the व्यय of full-time staff could not be justified.
This mountain has been the subject of चित्रकार, photographers and even a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, ( The Cross of Snow ).
The first publicly उपलब्धियाँ फोटोग्राफ was published in National Geographic magazine.
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting, which now is part of the collection of the Museum of the American West, भाग of the autry नेशनल बीच in Los Angeles, California.
It is still much photographed but it is not as खूब ज्ञात today as it was in the past.
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake, directly under the east face of the peak, Tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak, और several other lakes.
Notable locations within include the Dotsero volcano ( near Interstate 70 ), Vail and aspen.
US 24 runs near the शिखर through Gilman.
Photochrom print of Mount of the पावन क्रॉस c. 1900.
This image is a reversed view of the mountain compared to how it actually appears.
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873, by F. V. Hayden and photographer W. H. Jackson during one of Hayden 's geographical surveys.
However, the peak may well have been ascended previously by miners or American Indians.
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by russel keene और हावर्ड Freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp Hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes, with the easiest and most common route being the North Ridge, which involves of vertical gain over और is रेटेड yds क्लास 2 लिये मॉडरेट scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the famous cross feature, and provides an advanced snow चढ़ाई or चरम स्की descent.
Mount of the Holy Cross has a history of endangering the जीवनदान of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar with the risks of प्रवेश wilderness areas and do not bring adequate equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the पावन क्रॉस is frequently reached on a long day hike, unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to changing environmental conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North Ridge.
Thorough research and reasonable planning should prevent most tragedies.
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible from Tigiwon Road, south of minturn, Colorado.
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to the समिट of माउंट of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
Following the पतन क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of Notch Mountain Trail provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge.
The GSM logo is used to identify compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a standard set developed by the यूरोपीय दूरसंचार मानकों संस्थान ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones.
It became the de facto global standard for mobile संचार with over 80 % market share.
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement for first पीढी ( 1G ) analog cellular networks, and originally described a digital, circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony.
This was expanded over time to include data communications, first by circuit switched transport, then packet data transport via GPRS ( General Packet Radio Services ) and EDGE ( उन्नत आंकड़ा दरों लिये जीएसएम एवोल्यूशन or egprs ).
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by चौथी पीढी ( 4g ) LTE Advanced standards.
`` GSM '' is a ट्रेडमार्क स्वामित्व by the GSM Association.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the lend-lease विधेयक to give aid to Britain and China ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act was an act where the United States had supported its allies.
lend-lease ( ) थी the विधि कि प्रारंभ a कार्यक्रम अंतर्गत जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the United Kingdom, the USSR, Republic of China, Free France, and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on March 11, 1941, a year and a half after the outbreak of World War ii in यूरोपीय in सितंबर 1939.
This थी नौ महीने before the U.S. entered the war in December 1941.
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the United States, the Act effectively ended the United राज्य ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 billion ( equivalent to $ आज ) लायक of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet Union, $ 3.2 billion to France, $ 1.6 billion to China, and smaller sums to other Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised सेवाएं ऐसे as किराया on एयर bases कि went to the U.S., and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this, $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth.
The terms of the अनुबंध provided कि the materiel was to be used until time for their return or destruction.
आपूर्तियाँ बाद the termination तिथि यहूद बेची to ब्रिटेन at a large discount for £1.075 billion using long-term loans from the United States.
कनाडा संचालित a समान कार्यक्रम कि भेजा $ 4.7 अरब in आपूर्तियाँ to the संयुक्त किंगडम और the सोवियत संघ.
The United States did not charge for aid supplied अंतर्गत इस विधान.
This program was a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist policy, which had dominated United States foreign relations since the end of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), also called sunroot, sunchoke, earth apple or topinambour, is a species of sunflower native to पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका, और मिला इससे पूर्वी कनाडा और maine वेस्ट to उत्तर डकोटा, और south to northern Florida and Texas.
It is also cultivated widely across the temperate zone for its tuber, which is used as a root vegetable.
Castillo San फेलिप del Morro also known as Fort San Felipe del Morro or Morro Castle, is a 16th-century citadel located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Stonehenge is a प्रागैतिहासिक स्मारक in Wiltshire, England, about west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury.
One of the most famous sites in the world, stonehenge is the remains of a रिंग of standing stones set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the most dense complex of Neolithic और कांस्य आयु monuments in England, including several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists believe it थी निर्मित anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones यहूद उठाया between 2400 और 2200 bc, whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch, which constitute the earliest phase of the monument, have been dated to about 3100 BC.
The site and इसके परिवेश यहूद added to the UNESCO 's list of World Heritage Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
It is a national legally protected Scheduled Ancient Monument.
stonehenge is स्वामित्व by the Crown and managed by English Heritage, while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
Archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate कि जमा contain human bone from as early as 3000 BC, when the ditch and bank were first dug.
Such जमा जारी at Stonehenge for at least another 500 years.
the साईट is a place of religious significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an annual कॉलेज बास्केट tournament for women.
Held each April, the महिलाओं 's चैंपियनशिप was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season.
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament, which was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship program for the 1981-82 school year, as the NCAA engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of महिलाओं 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) sports ; however, बाद a साल of डुअल महिलाओं 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the सालो, especially since 2003, when the final championship game was moved to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game.
The महिलाओं 's championship game is now the final overall game of the college basketball season.
Before that, the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the शुक्रवार पहले the Men 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament.
The final was प्रायः निभाई the Sunday afternoon following the Men 's Final Four.
The टूर्नामेंट bracket is made up of champions from each Division I conference, which receive automatic bids.
The remaining slots are at-large bids, with teams chosen by an ncaa selection committee.
The selection process and tournament seedings are based on several factors, including team rankings, win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data.
Unlike the men 's tournament, there are only 32 at-large बोलियों ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The women 's tournament, like the men 's, is staged in a single elimination format, and is part of the media और पब्लिक frenzy ज्ञात colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance.
All 63 games have been ब्रॉडकास्ट on टेलीविज़न since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS, local teams are shown on each channel when available, with `` whip-around '' कवरेज designed to शोकेस the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रतियोगिताओं in the बाकी of the country.
The Rosetta Stone in the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V.
The डिक्री appears in three scripts : the upper text is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs, the middle portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some minor differences between them ), it provided the कुंजी to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed within a temple, the stone was probably moved during the early Christian or medieval period and eventually used as building material in the निर्माण of फोर्ट जुलिएन निकट the कस्बा of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier, Pierre-François Bouchard, of the French expedition to Egypt.
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times, the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread पब्लिक ब्याज साथ इसके संभावित to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
Lithographic copies and plaster casts began circulating among European museums और विद्वानों.
Meanwhile, British troops defeated the French in Egypt in 1801, and the original stone आए into British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria.
Transported to London, it has been on public प्रदर्शक at the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय since 1802.
It is the most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the British Museum.
Ever since its rediscovery, the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries, including its transfer from French to British possession during the Napoleonic Wars, a long-running dispute over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to Egypt.
Study of the decree was already under way as the first पूरा अनुवाद of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, before the transliteration of the Egyptian स्क्रिप्ट थी घोषित by jean-françois Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before scholars were able to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition कि the स्टोन offered तीन संस्करण of the वही टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well, and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young, 1814 ) ; and that, in addition to being used for foreign names, phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later, and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions हैं अभी ज्ञात, including two slightly earlier Ptolemaic decrees ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC, and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV, ca. 218 BC ).
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique, but it was the essential key to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian literature and civilization.
The term Rosetta Stone is now used in अन्य contexts as the name for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog, ज़हर मेंढक or formerly ज़हर arrow frog ) is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America.
These species are diurnal and often have brightly रंगीन bodies.
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic, स्तर of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next and from one population to another.
Many species are threatened.
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 species, only four have महरूम प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त लिये इस purpose ( curare plants are more commonly used ), all of which come from the Phyllobates genus, which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members.
cajeta is a मैक्सिकन confection of thickened syrup usually made of sweetened caramelised milk.
According to chef Rick Bayless, the name for cajeta came from the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta, which means `` a liquid thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked ''.
another परिकल्पना is that it takes its name from the small wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the राज्य of guanajuato, हालांकि it is भी उत्पादित साथ the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco, such as Mazamitla, Sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering बकरी 's मिल्क, or occasionally a sweetened liquid, stirring frequently, until it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water, and caramelized.
While goat milk is the most usual आधार, अन्य liquids or juices may be used.
In Celaya, and eventually the rest of Mexico, the confection of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta, but elsewhere, the milk candy became ज्ञात as leche quemada, जलेबी de leche, इत्यादि.
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets like pera and the milk फ़ज burfi, और in the ओपेरा फ़ज of the u.S. cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet, as a spread or filling for breads and pastries, such as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.
Certain liquors are added to special recipes called cajeta envinada.
In जोड, cajeta envinada especial is enriched with raisins, almonds, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes, as a sweet sauce boiled और softened down with milk to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In Mexico many brands make cajeta but the most आम ब्रांड is coronado.
It is भी बहुत आम to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican dessert.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder son of Charles, Prince of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii और प्रिंस Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, Tanzania, and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed अनेक times.
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at विश्वविद्यालयों in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search और Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to RAF Valley on No. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी.
Hours prior to his विवाह, प्रिंस विलियम was created Duke of Cambridge, Earl of Strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
माली is a multilingual country.
The languages spoken there reflect ancient settlement patterns, migrations, and its long history.
Ethnologue counts 50 भाषाएं.
Of these, French is the आधिकारिक भाषा और Bambara is the most widely spoken.
altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of Mali have the legal status of national language.
Sign in French, at a monument in Bamako.
{ { Infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज New Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
Rogers Building, the मुख्यालय of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified पब्लिक कनाडाई संचार and media company.
It is particularly in the field of wireless communications, केबल टेलीविज़न, टेलीफोन, और अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant additional telecommunications and mass media assets.
The company is headquartered in the Rogers Building in Toronto, Ontario.
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube कम्पनी, founded in 1925 by Edward Rogers, which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, when Rogers ' son, Ted Rogers, founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd.
That company acquired CHFI that year, as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting, a partnership with Joel Aldred which helped लॉन्च cfto in 1961.
Rogers later bought out Aldred and started the current cable and wireless operations, known as Rogers cablesystems Ltd.
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and television media assets, as well as wireless, television distribution, and telephone services, particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions.
However, the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless services, and primarily indirectly साथ शॉ संचार लिये टेलीविज़न सेवा.
The company also competes साथ a क्रमांक of अन्य media companies in the broadcasting industry.
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide.
It is a network of संजाल कि consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government networks, of local to global scope, that are linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless and optical networking technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services, such as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email.
Most traditional communications media including telephone, music, film, and टेलीविज़न हैं होने reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल, giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ).
Newspaper, book and other print publishing are adapting to Web site technology, or are reshaped into blogging और वेब feeds.
The अंतरजाल रै सक्रिय and accelerated new forms of human interactions through instant messaging, Internet forums, and social networking.
Online shopping has boomed both for major retail outlets and small artisans and traders.
Business-to-business and financial services on the Internet affect supply जंजीरों across entire industries.
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the संयुक्त States government in the 1960s to build robust, fault-tolerant communication via computer networks.
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s, as well as private funding for other commercial backbones, led to विश्वव्यापी भागीदारी in the विकास of new networking technologies, and the merger of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international network resulted in इसके popularization and incorporation into virtually every aspect of modern human life.
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ; approximately 100 टाइम्स अधिक लोगों than were using it in 1995, when it was mostly used by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United States and several other countries.
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological क्रियान्वयन or नीतियों लिये अभिगम and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two प्रिंसिपल नाम स्पेसेस in the Internet, the Internet Protocol address space and the Domain Name System, are directed by a maintainer organization, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and मानकीकरण of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ), a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 Winter Olympics, officially known as the XX Olympic Winter Games, was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin, Italy from February 10, 2006, through फ़रवरी 26, 2006.
This marked the second time इटली hosted the ओलम्पिक शीत Games, the first being the VII Olympic Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
Italy भी hosted the Games of the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
Turin was selected as the host city for the 2006 खेल in 1999.
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '', the Italian name of the city ; the city is known as `` Turin '' in both English and the लोकल परंपरागत language, Piedmontese.
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` हिम '' in इतालवी ), a female snowball, and Gliz, a male ice cube.
The official motto of the XX Olympic Winter Games was `` Passion जीवनदान here ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the बीटल्स कि परोसा as the शीर्षक सोंग for both the 1965 film and its soundtrack album.
It was also released as a single, and was number one for three weeks in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और the United Kingdom.
`` सहायता ! '' was written primarily by John Lennon, but credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an इंटरव्यू with Playboy in 1984, Paul McCartney stated that the title was `` out of desperation ''.
Poster लिये the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who usually gave his name as S. Bing, and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing, 1850–1905, was his brother ) was a German art डीलर जो जिया in पेरिस as an adult, and who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
Comparison of male and female life expectancy at birth for देशों और territories as defined in the 2011 CIA Factbook, with selected bubbles labelled.
the बिंदीदार लकीर corresponds to equal female and male life expectancy.
the apparent 3D volumes of the bubbles are linearly proportional to their population.
This is a list of देशों by life expectancy at birth.
Kennewick is a नगर in benton काउंटी in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Washington, near the Hanford nuclear site.
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the others being Pasco and Richland ).
Kennewick is located along the southwest बैंको of the कोलंबिया नदी, विपरीत pasco और just south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers.
The population was 73,917 at the 2010 census.
April 1, 2012 estimates इससे the वॉशिंगटन राज्य दफ्तर of Financial Management put the city 's population at 75,160.
The nearest commercial airport is the tri-cities Airport in Pasco, a regional commercial and private airport.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 क्षेत्रफल in the United States for job growth, while nearby Yakima was named # 1.
The article cites the number of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and area farmland for this outlook.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and अंतरराष्ट्रीय सामान्यीकृत ratio ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
This test is also called `` ProTime INR '' और `` pt/inr ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status.
PT measures factors I ( fibrinogen ), II ( prothrombin ), V, VII, and X.
It is used in conjunction with the activated partial thromboplastin समय ( aptt ) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood लिये प्रेम '' is a popular song.
The music was written by jimmy McHugh, the lyrics by Dorothy Fields.
The song was published in 1935.
it थी introduced by Frances Langford in the movie Every Night at Eight released that year.
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( Little Rascals ) short, The Pinch Singer, sung by Carl `` अल्फाल्फा '' switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is often known to be Switzer 's signature song.
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 रिकॉर्डिंग of this song inspired the song `` Moody 's Mood for Love ``.
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on उसके एल्बम a प्रिंस among चोरों ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
The song 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी शीर्षक of वोंग kar wai 's फिल्म in the मनोदशा लिये प्रेम.
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human behavior and mental processes, including both their variability and invariance, under diverse cultural conditions.
Through expanding शोध methodologies to recognize cultural variance in behavior, language, and meaning it seeks to extend and develop psychology.
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America, some psychologists became चिंतित कि constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as previously assumed, especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central विषयवस्तु, ऐसे as affect, cognition, conceptions of the self, and issues such as psychopathology, anxiety, and depression, may lack external validity when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts, cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural मनोवैज्ञानिक शोध और अर्जी that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the scientific search for universal principles in psychology, cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry.
In 1972 the International Association of cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान ( IACCP ) was established.
This branch of psychology रै जारी to expand as there has been an increasing popularity of incorporating culture and diversity into studies.
Cross-cultural psychology is differentiated इससे सांस्कृतिक मनोविज्ञान.
The latter is the branch of मनोविज्ञान कि holds कि इंसान बर्ताव is significantly influenced by cultural differences, meaning that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान शामिल a ढूंढें लिये संभावित universals in behavior and mental processes.
Walter J. Lonner, writing लिये नजर on psi ची, रै stated that `` cross-cultural psychology can be thought of as a type research methodology, rather than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from her second studio एल्बम born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by interscope Records on April 15, 2011, four days ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and produced by महिला गागा and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further समझाया that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The कलाकृति for the single was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, जो likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a समान sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks, including `` Poker Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced ब्रेक bas.
Gaga समझाया कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, लकिन was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the चार्ट in सबसे major music markets, and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा और Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga निभाई Mary Magdalene.
the वीडियो portrays them as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem.
It शामिल the biblical स्टोरी of Judas betraying Jesus, and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its release, the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video.
however, आलोचकों generally praised the video, not finding any offensive content.
The video was nominated for two awards at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including The Graham Norton Show, Saturday Night Live, Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert श्रेणी '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video compression, and is currently one of the most commonly used formats for the recording, संपीडन, और वितरण of high definition video.
The final drafting कार्य on the पहला version of the standard was completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 चलती चित्र विशेषज्ञ समूह ( एमपीईजी ).
The project partnership effort is ज्ञात as the संयुक्त Video Team ( JVT ).
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the iso/iec mpeg-4 avc मानक ( formally, ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10, Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly maintained so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the codec standards for Blu-ray Discs ; all blu-ray डिस्क players must be able to decode H.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources, such as videos from Vimeo, YouTube, and the iTunes Store, web software such as the Adobe Flash Player and microsoft silverlight, और भी विभिन्न hdtv प्रसारण over स्थलीय ( atsc, ISDB-T, DVB-T or DVB-T2 ), cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
non-binding मध्यस्थता is a प्रकार of मध्यस्थता in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute, but this determination is not binding upon them, and no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the संबंधित merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding arbitration is used in कनेक्शन with attempts to reach a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the surface, similar to that of a mediator in a mediation.
However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the पार्टियों ढूँढें a middle ground to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the settlement process and will only give a determination of liability and, if appropriate, an indication of the quantum of damages payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the parties remain free to pursue their claims either through the courts, or by way of a binding arbitration, although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome.
the पुरस्कार और तर्क in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal.
Non-binding arbitration is utilised ज़्यादातर in the United States and Canada.
It is largely unknown in Europe, although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a Queen 's Counsel for an opinion on the merits and likely quantum of a claim, and then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island in southwestern कुक Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska, southwest of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color Code Green for aviation and the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी स्तर is at सामान्य.
Augustine Island has a land area of, while West Island, just off अगस्टाइन 's western shores, has.
The island is made up mainly of past फटना deposits.
Scientists have been able to discern that पास्ट गुम्बद पतन रै resulted in large avalanches.
A map of बेलीज़.
The देश of बेलीज़ रै roughly 386 km of coastline, and has many coral reefs, cays, and islands in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the बेलीज़ अवरोध रीफ, the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately.
The reef and its islands have been a UNESCO संसार विरासत साईट चूंकि 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन सब of जिससे हैं in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of the islands variate in spelling between `` cay '' and `` caye '', and also use the Spanish `` cayo ''.
नदी आइलैंड्स have not been listed.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली कि allows ऑप्टिकल डिस्क data storage devices to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks.
DLA is a पैकेट लिखने technology for CD and DVD media that uses the UDF file system.
DLA is not compatible with Windows विस्टा and newer, although a patch exists to fix this issue under Windows Vista.
Roxio Burn was introduced on अप्रैल 30, 2009.
As a replacement for dla, it remedies compatibility issues Internet Explorer 8.
अल्फा रेक्स emmanuel humbard ( अगस्त 13, 1919 – सितंबर 21, 2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी टेलीविज़न इंजीलवादी जिनकी गिरजाघर of कल दिखाएँ थी दिखाया on over 600 स्टेशन at the शिखर of इसके लोकप्रियता.
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil Burger and starring ब्राडली Cooper, Abbie Cornish, and Robert De Niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by Alan Glynn with the पटकथा by लेस्ली Dixon.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area, the 4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the आयल, natural gas, and fishing industries ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more वस्तुतः, `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards जिससे the कार्रवाई of the समुद्र is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word derived from the वही रूट.
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU ) is a South African tertiary education institution with its main प्रशासन in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of three institutions founded NMMU in January 2005 but its history dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School.
The विश्वविद्यालयों draws international students from all over the world.
There are over 3000 अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी और शामिल students from the United States, France, China, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and many other countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive विश्वविद्यालयों offering पेशेवर and vocational training.
The University has six campuses - पाँच in बंदरगाहों Elizabeth and one in George.
The main campus is the दक्षिण Campus.
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas और डिग्री up to और सहित डॉक्टरेट level qualifications.
A number of courses include कार्यस्थल अनुभव as part of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an अमरीकी कॉस्मेटिक्स brand founded in Maryland, by the Noxzema Chemical Company ( later called Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` cover girls '', fashion models who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a wide variety of cosmetics उपलब्धियाँ at उचित prices.
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a work of scientific साहित्य by चार्ल्स Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the संरक्षण of favoured दौड़ in the Struggle for Life.
For the sixth edition of 1872, the short title थी बदला to the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति.
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve over the course of generations through a process of natural selection.
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of life arose by common descent through a branching pattern of evolution.
Darwin included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s and his subsequent findings from शोध, पत्राचार, और experimentation.
Various evolutionary ideas had already been प्रस्तावित to बताइये नई findings in biology.
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England, while science was part of natural theology.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs that species were unchanging parts of a designed hierarchy and that इंसानो यहूद अद्वितीय, unrelated to अन्य पशु.
The political and theological implications were intensely debated, लकिन transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream.
The book was written for non-specialist readers and attracted widespread interest upon इसके प्रकाशन.
As डार्विन थी an प्रतिष्ठित वैज्ञानिक, उसके निष्कर्षों were taken seriously and the evidence he presented generated scientific, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The debate over the किताब contributed to the campaign by T.H. Huxley and his fellow members of the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades there was widespread scientific agreement that evolution, with a branching pattern of common descent, had occurred, but वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s, various other mechanisms of एवोल्यूशन यहूद दिए अधिक क्रेडिट.
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s, Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural चयन became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक विकासवादी सिद्धान्त, अभी the unifying concept of the life sciences.
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30, 1890 – September 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor '', was an American Major League बेसबॉल outfielder and manager.
He was elected to the Baseball Hall of कीर्ति in.
Stengel was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '', a common उपनाम at कि समय लिये अमेरिकी of German ancestry.
After his major league career began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', which originally came from the initials of his hometown ( `` K. C. '' ), जिससे विकसित into `` केसी '', influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters dubbed him with yet another उपनाम, `` the बूढ़ा प्राध्यापक '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related.
Although his baseball career spanned a number of टीमों and cities, he is primarily associated with clubs in New York City.
Between playing and managing, he is the only man to have worn four of New York 's major लीग क्लब ' वर्दी.
He was the first of four men ( through the season ) to manage both the New यॉर्क यांकीज़ और नई York Mets ; Yogi Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others.
Like Torre, he भी प्रबंधित the Braves and the Dodgers.
he ended उसके बेसबॉल करियर as the beloved मैनेजर लिये the तब विस्तार नई यॉर्क मेट्स, जिससे जीती over the दिल of नई यॉर्क partly due to the अद्वितीय अक्षर of उनके दिग्गज leader.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars and one of the four महीने साथ a लंबाई of 30 days.
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his कविता concerning the महीने entitled the Fasti.
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno, wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word iuniores, meaning `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the month with the longest daylight hours of the year in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to December in the Southern Hemisphere and vice versa.
in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, the beginning of the meteorological summer is 1 June.
In the Southern hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological winter is 1 June.
At the start of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at the end of जून, the सूर्य rises in the constellation of Gemini.
However, due to the precession of the equinoxes, June begins साथ the सूर्य in the astrological sign of Gemini, and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer.
June is known for the large number of marriages that occur over the course of the month.
according to one etymology, June is named after Juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married couple 's household, so कुछ consider it good luck to be married in this month.
According to another etymology provided by the Roman poet Ovid, June is नामित लिये the iuniores, latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) and that the month of May is named for the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
In Iceland, folklore says that if you bathe naked in the morning dew on the morning of June 24, you are supposed to रखना वृद्धावस्था at खाड़ी लिये longer.
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to जिससे a state or other organization is governed.
These rules साथ मेक up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is.
When these principles are लिखा bas into a सिंगल दस्तावेज़ or नियत of विधिक दस्तावेज़, those दस्तावेज़ may be said to embody a written constitution ; if they are written down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations, from sovereign राज्य to companies and unincorporated associations.
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also its constitution, in that it would define how that organization is constituted.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the principles upon which the state is based, the procedure in which laws are made and by whom.
Some constitutions, विशेषकर संहिताबद्ध constitutions, also act as limiters of state power, by establishing lines which a state 's rulers can not cross, such as fundamental rights.
George Washington at Constitutional Convention of 1787, हस्ताक्षर of u.S. संविधान.
The संविधान of इण्डिया is the longest written constitution of any sovereign country in the world, containing 448 articles, 12 schedules and 100 amendments, with 117,369 words in its English language version, while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution, at 7 articles and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center.
Engineering management is a specialized रूप of management that is concerned with the application of engineering principles to business practice.
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational, administrative, और planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion.
Example areas of engineering are product development, manufacturing, construction, design engineering, औद्योगिक अभियान्त्रिकी, technology, production, or any other field that employs personnel who perform an engineering function.
कामयाब अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक typically require training and experience in business and engineering.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their technical team, and non-commercial managers tend to lack वाणिज्यिक सूझबूझ to उद्धार in a market economy.
Largely, engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking, thus require the जरुरी लोगों कौशल to कोच, mentor and motivate technical professionals.
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing companies sometimes become अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट बाद a period of time.
They are required to learn कैसा to मैनेज एकबार वे हैं on the job, though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the amount of expenses that जरूर be सशुल्क आउट of pocket before an insurer will pay any expenses.
In general usage, the term deductible may be used to describe एक of अनेक प्रकार of clauses ( see below ) that are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments.
Deductibles are typically used to deter the large number of trivial claims that a उपभोक्ता can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs, the बीमे कड़ expects to pay out slightly smaller amounts much less frequently, incurring much higher savings.
As a result, insurance premiums are typically cheaper when they involve उच्चतर deductibles.
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an बीमे policy that dictate how much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
They are normally quoted as a fixed quantity and is a भाग of सबसे नीतियों covering losses to the policy holder.
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount ( subject to the maximum योग claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the नीति, the deductible may apply per covered incident, or per year.
For policies where incidences हैं नहीं आसान to delimit ( for example health insurance ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
अनेक deductibles can be set by the insurer based on the cause of the claim.
For example, a single housing insurance policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from theft, fire, natural calamities, निकासी इत्यादि.
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a deductible in the event of an auto, home, boat/yacht or स्वास्थ्य बीमे अर्जी.
An invoice or bill is a commercial document issued by a विक्रेता to a खरीदार, indicating the products, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer.
An invoice indicates the बिक्री लेनदेन only.
Payment terms are independent of the invoice and are negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
Payment terms are usually included on the invoice.
The buyer could have already paid for the products or सेवाएं listed on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a अधिकतम क्रमांक of दिनों in जिससे to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date.
In the rental industry, an invoice must include a specific reference to the duration of the time होने billed, so in जोड to quantity, price and discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
Generally each line of a rental invoice will refer to the actual hours, दिनों, सप्ताह, महीने, etc., being billed.
From the point of view of a seller, an invoice is a sales invoice.
From the point of view of a buyer, an चालान is a purchase invoice.
The document indicates the buyer and seller, but the term चालान indicates money is owed or owing.
In English, the context of the term चालान is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to clarify its meaning, such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or सही प्रिंसिपल bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, and more vertical in दिशा than the बाएँ.
It is about 2.5 cm long, और enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it इससे behind ; and the right pulmonary artery lies at first below and then in front of it.
About 2 cm from its शुरुआत it gives off a branch to the upper lobe of the right lung.
This is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus, क्युकी it arises above the right pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes below the artery, and is known as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into दो शाखाओं लिये the मध्य और lower lobes.
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea, it will सबसे संभावित डालें the सही प्रमुख bronchus instead of the left, due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or चार खिलाड़ी ( युगल ) in a four-walled court with a small, hollow rubber ball.
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the playable surfaces of the four walls of the court.
The game was formerly called squash racquets, a सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल used in the game ( compared with the fatter ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ).
Squash is पहचाना by the ioc and supporters are lobbying for its incorporation in a future Olympic program.
In 2003, Forbes rated squash as the number one healthiest खेल to play.
Residual oil is oil found in कम एकाग्रता naturally or in exhausted oil fields.
Often mixed साथ जल, it can not be recovered by conventional techniques.
However, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2 EOR ) which involves injecting carbon dioxide into the खूब reducing श्यानता and enhancing flow of the oil.
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively on residual oil zones, low-grade deposits of petroleum such as the 38 square miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
The तकनीक is limited by availability of carbon dioxide.
It does not result in sequestration of the carbon dioxide but the gas is recycled as much as संभावित.
United राज्य reserves of अवशेष oil are estimated to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the fire, by John R. Chapin, originally printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge.
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from Sunday, October 8, to early Tuesday, October 10, 1871, killing सैंकड़ों और destroying about in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the rebuilding that began helped develop शिकागो as एक of the सबसे populous and economically important American cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 अप्रैल 1509 जबतक उसके death.
He was lord, and later king, of Ireland, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the किंगडम of फ़्रांस.
Henry was the दूसरी monarch of the Tudor dynasty, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is known for his role in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the monasteries, और उसके अपना स्थापना as the परम् Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर Catholic theological teachings, even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new किंग अलाइड साथ the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, and invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced England 's क्षमता to defeat the French.
This foray होता prove the start of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman सम्राट, Charles V, supported Henry only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, educated and accomplished king, and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he also engaged himself as an author और composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became morbidly obese and his health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States television network Telemundo, in conjunction with the एंटेना 3 network and RTI Producciones.
आधारित on a अनोखा of the वही नाम by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte, the drama depicts the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ), a young woman from Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain.
patricio wills, the अध्यक्ष of Telemundo Television Studios, was the executive producer.
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year, Favorite Lead Actress, and Best Bad Luck Video, it won no awards.
With a $ 10 million budget, La Reina del Sur was the most expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
The program 's premiere on February 28, 2011, was the network 's highest रेटेड प्रीमियर लिये a telenovela to date.
The program frequently dominated its time slot, even over English language programming on other major U.S. networks.
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode run on Telemundo and its 13 episode run on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 लाख दर्शक ), और ताल सब of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to gain the series an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन.
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31, 2011, and marked the telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात latina टेलीविज़न personality Cristina Saralegui.
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in अनेक अन्य बाज़ार, सहित सर्बिया, कोलंबिया, Chile, Cyprus, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Mexico, Albania, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, ( among others ).
An example of रैक आरोहित servers
A web होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide स्पेस on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट, as well as providing Internet connectivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the अंतरजाल for other servers located in their data center, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The पैमाना of वेब hosting services varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be अपलोड via संचिका Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the वेब `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
Many Internet सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) प्रस्ताव this service free to subscribers.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page होस्टिंग from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
कारोबार वेब साईट hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for personal web pages.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, जावा, माणिक्य on rails, coldfusion, or asp.net ).
These सुविधाएं allow ग्राहक to write or install scripts for applications like forums and content management.
Also, Secure Sockets Layer ( एसएसएल ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or कंट्रोल फलक लिये managing the Web server and installing scripts, as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 ) is an American football video game श्रेणी विकसित by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला Tiburon for EA Sports.
The game series is named after Pro Football Hall of Famer John Madden, a well-known former Super Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator.
The series is the बेहतरीन selling EA Sports series.
The games have consistently been a best seller, और रै भी शाखित TV shows where players compete.
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics, and voice commentary that allows players to hear the game as if it यहूद a रियल tv ब्रॉडकास्ट.
The Madden NFL series has been nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd Franchise.
The series was originally conceived by Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins, who तब approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to Madden 's insistence कि the खेल be as realistic as possible, the first version of John Madden Football was not released until 1988.
The second version of the game was released in 1990, साथ सालाना संस्करण since then.
The series ' name was changed to Madden NFL in 1993 बाद ea acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players.
Despite Madden 's retirement as a प्रसारणकर्ता in 2009, he continues to lend his name and provide expertise for the game.
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son, U.S. फौज विशेषज्ञ Casey Sheehan, was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War.
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside President George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand that drew both passionate support and angry criticism.
Sheehan ran unsuccessfully for कॉंग्रेस in 2008.
She is a vocal critic of अध्यक्ष बराक Obama 's foreign policy.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : A माँ 's यात्रा through heartache to Activism, was published in 2006.
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the Peace and Freedom Party.
Wyclef jeanelle जां ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME, Aug 21, 2010.
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running for President of Haiti, Wyclef Jean थी स्टिल listing his age as only 37 years old.
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate, the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to आइये साफ और confirm that he was really 40. '' is a three-time Grammy Award -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, record producer, and politician.
At age nine, Jean moved to the United States with his family and has spent much of his life in the country.
He first received fame as a सदस्य of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election, although the Electoral Commission subsequently शासित उसे ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years.
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election ruling – BBC News, Aug 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the Haitian constitution requires candidates to have lived in the country for five सालो prior to an चुनाव.
The 40-year-old singer lives in the US.
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief, highly publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the संयुक्त राज्य, were channeled through his charitable organization, Yéle Haiti.
The charity, which performed a variety of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory defense to the whole or to a portion of a अभियोक्ता 's claim.
It had no existence under the English common law, being created by 2 Geo. II c. 22 for the relief of insolvent debtors, although set-off was पहचाना in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite character, and did not apply to cases in which damages were claimed, nor to equitable claims or demands.
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set off or set up any right or claim by way of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a अभियोक्ता, और ऐसे set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the अन्यायपूर्ण हालात whereby a व्यक्ति ( `` पार्टी a '' ) जो owed money to another ( `` Party B '' ) could be sent to debtors prison, despite the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A.
The law thus allows both parties to defer payment until their संबंधित claims have been heard in court.
Upon judgment, both claims are बुझे and replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g. If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105, the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that, where a party defaults, the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished.
In certain jurisdictions ( including the UK ), set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, for each party which is both a creditor और debtor of the insolvent company, mutual debts are set-off against each other, and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid, depending on which side owed the most.
This has been criticized as an undeclared security interest कि violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, where a creditor has to pay all its debts, but receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys that other unsecured creditors मिलेंगी, मुद्राएँ the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
The right to set off is particularly important when रिपोर्टिंग a bank 's exposures to regulatory authorities.
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed, because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' धन ) is यूँ replaced ( जहाँ the बैंको रै लिया सुरक्षा over साझा or प्रतिभूति of the borrower ) साथ an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken.
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11, 1969 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, फिल्मी director, and producer.
Aniston gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s for portraying Rachel Green on the टेलीविज़न sitcom मित्रों, a भूमिका जिससे अर्जित her an Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award, and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
एनिस्टन रै भी enjoyed a successful Hollywood film career.
She gained critical acclaim for उसके performances in the independent films She 's the One ( 1996 ), Office Space ( 1999 ), The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ).
She has had her greatest commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ), The Break-Up ( 2006 ), Marley & Me ( 2008 ), Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and भयानक bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston received a star on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति on February 22, 2012.
A white Bengal tiger at the ह्यूस्टन Aquarium
( वीडियो )
A White tiger at Tobu Zoo, in saitama, जापानी.
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of the Bengal tiger, which was reported in the wild from time to time in Assam, Bengal, Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa.
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect, part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local कंप्यूटर बस लिये attaching हार्डवेयर डिवाइस in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus, but in a standardized format that is independent of कोई particular processor.
Devices कनेक्ट to the बस appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus, and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, called a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles, where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It रै subsequently been adopted for other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI एक्स्प्रेस, लकिन, सबसे motherboards are still made with one or more PCI slots, which are sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification कवर the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : संजाल ताश, ध्वनि ताश, modems, extra ports such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, until growing bandwidth आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with बूढ़ा pcs बगैर AGP or PCI Express slots.
Many डिवाइस previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
Caffeine is a कड़वा, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that acts as a stimulant drug.
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, and fruit of some plants, where it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक कीटनाशक कि paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants, as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the coffee plant and the leaves of the tea bush, as well as from various foods and drinks containing products derived इससे the कोला nut.
Other sources शामिल yerba maté, guarana berries, guayusa, and the yaupon holly.
In humans, caffeine acts as a central बेचैन प्रणाली उत्तेजक, temporarily warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness.
It is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is विधिक और unregulated in nearly all parts of the world.
Beverages containing caffeine, such as coffee, tea, soft drinks, and उर्जा पेय, आनंद ग्रेट popularity.
In North America, 90 % of वयस्कों consume caffeine daily.
Part of the reason caffeine is वर्गीकृत by the खाना और ड्रग प्रशासन as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks, even when carried on for years – there may be a modest protective effect against some diseases, including Parkinsons Disease, and निश्चित प्रकार of कर्कट.
Caffeine can have both positive and negative effects on anxiety विकार.
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine, especially during the evening hours, but others show little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय.
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal, but some authorities have concluded that prudent advice is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less.
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women.
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects जब administered to लोगों जो हैं नहीं प्रयुक्त to it, लकिन नियमित उपयोक्ता develop a tolerance to this effect, and studies have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration.
With heavy use, tolerance develops rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated heart rate and muscle twitching, but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine.
The degree to जिससे कैफीन can उपज clinically significant physical and mental dependence remains a subject of controversy in the medical literature.
A kicktail cruiser
A longboard is a longer variant of a skateboard.
It is commonly used for cruising, downhill रेसिंग, slalom racing, sliding, and/or transport.
Sources बाहर of विकिपीडिया give differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world जनसांख्यिकी as 7,021,836,029 ( जुलाई 2012 est. ) और the वितरण of धर्मों as Christian 100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 %, Protestant 8.15 %, Orthodox 4.96 %, Anglican 1.26 % ), Muslim 22.74 %, Hindu 13.8 %, Buddhist 6.77 %, Sikh 0.35 %, Jewish 0.22 %, Baha'i 0.11 %, other religions 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The Coast Ranges of California span from Humboldt County, California दक्षिण to सांता बारबरा County.
The other three coastal California mountain ranges are the Transverse Ranges, Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains.
physiographically, वे हैं a खण्ड of the larger प्रशांत किनारा प्रांत, जिससे in फेरे हैं भाग of the larger प्रशांत पहाड़ प्रणाली physiographic division.
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve `` in its Man और the जीवमंडल कार्यक्रम of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
वाहनों in उपयोग per country from 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant विकास in BRIC.
संसार मैप of passenger cars per 1000 people
An automobile, autocar, motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for transporting यात्री, which also carries its own engine or motor.
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads, to have seating for one to eight people, to typically have four wheels, and to be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods.
The term motorcar रै भी महरूम प्रयुक्त in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of electrified रेल प्रणालियों to denote a car which functions as a small locomotive but also provides space for passengers and baggage.
These लोकोमोटिव गाड़ियाँ were often used on suburban routes by both interurban and intercity railroad systems.
It was estimated in 2010 that the number of automobiles had risen to over 1 billion vehicles, up from the 500 लाख of 1986.
The numbers are increasing rapidly, विशेषकर in China and India.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his आद्याक्षर jfk, थी the 35th President of the United States, serving from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the South Pacific, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy पराजित वाइस अध्यक्ष and Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- Protestant president, and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the बर्लिन Wall, the Space Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, खास आपरेशन forces, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, and पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in Dallas, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he was shot and killed by जोकर माणिक्य दो days later, before a trial could take place.
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the लोन हत्यारे.
However, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( hsca ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, confirmed the findings of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the general public, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in पब्लिक राय ratings of U.S. presidents.
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall, at James Madison University.
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm control unit ( FACU ) / autonomous control unit ( ACU ) with एकीकृत आवाज़ निकासी and fire fighter telephone system.
manufactured by Edwards, A UTC F & S Company
A Fire सचेतक कंट्रोल फलक ( facp ), or आग सचेतक Control Unit ( FACU ), is the controlling component of a Fire Alarm System.
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire, monitors their operational integrity and provides for automatic control of equipment, and transmission of information necessary to prepare the facility for fire आधारित on a predetermined sequence.
the फलक may also supply electrical energy to operate any associated sensor, control, transmitter, or relay.
There are four basic types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, and multiplex systems.
This is a list of the first music videos broadcast on एमटीवी 's पहला day, August 1, 1981.
MTV 's first दिन on the एयर थी rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and uploaded onto YouTube in 2010 ( although only the first four hours were authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as katunayake अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोन International Airport ) is one of the two international airports serving the city of Colombo, the other is Ratmalana International Airport.
mattala राजपक्षे अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport located in southern city of Hambantota is the other international airport in Sri Lanka.
भण्डारनायके अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport is located in Katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo.
It is administered by Airport and विमानन सेवाएं ( श्री लंका ) Ltd.
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines, the national carrier of Sri Lanka, and Mihin Lanka, the budget airline of Sri Lanka.
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by डैरेन aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel, and Mila Kunis.
The plot revolves around a उत्पादन of tchaikovsky 's Swan Lake ballet by a prestigious New York City company.
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan, for which the committed नर्तकी नीना ( पोर्टमैन ) is a पूर्ण fit, as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan, which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ).
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of immense pressure when she finds herself स्पर्धा for the part, causing her to lose her tenuous grip on reality and descend into a living nightmare.
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of Swan Lake with an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies और the ख़्याल of being haunted by a double, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
Aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` The Double `` as another प्रेरणा लिये the film.
The director also considered Black Swan a companion piece to his 2008 film The Wrestler, साथ दोनो films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art.
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000, and after a brief attachment to सार्वभौमिक Studios, Black Swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior to filming, and notable आंकड़े इससे the बैले संसार helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation.
The film premiered as the opening film for the 67th Venice International Film Festival on September 1, 2010.
It had a limited release in the United States starting December 3, 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17.
Black Swan received critical तारीफ़ upon its release, particularly for Portman 's performance and Aronofsky 's direction, and was a significant box office success, grossing $ 329 million worldwide.
The film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the film, as well as many other Best Actress awards in several guilds and festivals, while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director.
In addition, the film itself प्राप्त a nomination for Best Picture.
The world’s first ice-calorimeter, used in the winter of 1782-83, by Antoine लाव्वाज़्ये और pierre-simon लाप्लास, to determine the heat involved in various chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat.
These प्रयोग चिह्नित the foundation of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor, meaning heat ) is an object used for कैलोरीमिति, or the प्रक्रम of measuring the ऊष्मा of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity.
Differential scanning calorimeters, isothermal microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters and accelerated रेट calorimeters हैं among the most common types.
A simple ऊष्मामापी बस consists of a thermometer attached to a metal container full of water suspended above a combustion chamber.
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a पदार्थ a in a प्रतिक्रिया between two substances A and B, the substances are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted.
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances देता a value for the energy given off or absorbed during the reaction.
dividing the energy change by how many moles of A were present gives its enthalpy change of reaction.
This method is used primarily in academic teaching as it describes the theory of calorimetry.
it करता not account for the heat loss through the container or the heat capacity of the thermometer and container itself.
In addition, the ऑब्जेक्ट लगाई अंदर the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid, and the heat absorbed by the calorimeter and the liquid is equal to the heat given off by the metals.
A pair of ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of other names throughout the world ) हैं a प्रकार of open-toed sandal typically worn in casual situations, such as outside or at the beach.
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped strap that गुजरता between the first and second toes and around either side of the foot.
They may also be held to the foot with a single डोरी over the सामने of the पैर rather than a thong.
The name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the sound that is बना by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking.
This स्टाइल of जूते रै महरूम worn by the लोगों of many cultures throughout the world, originating as early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C.
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri, which became popular after World War II when soldiers returning to the United राज्य brought उन्हें back.
They became popular in casual settings during the 1960s, 1990s, and 2000s, and some किस्में have even found their way into more formal attire, despite criticism.
The use of flip-flops can परिणाम in many pains and injuries, including ankle sprains and broken bones.
Some individuals who walk for long periods report pain in the feet, ankles, और निम्नतर legs.
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation injuries, caused by the foot slipping inwards further than normal.
This can lead to flat फीट और tendonitis.
Other injuries that may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed प्रकृति, such as stubbed toes, cuts, and bruises.
Doctors सुझाएँ खरीदना pricier चप्पल साथ thick-cushioned सोल्स, as खूब as those कि have a डोरी कि is नहीं कैनवास और कि आता वापस लगभग to the टखने.
The स्वामी of Hanjin Osaka, seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008, declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on.
The law of general average is a legal principle of maritime law according to which all parties in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the जलयान or कार्गो to save the whole in an emergency.
In the exigencies of जोखिमों faced at sea, crew members often have precious little time in which to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time, there arose the निष्पक्ष अभ्यास whereby सब the व्यापारियों जिनकी cargo landed safely would be called on to contribute a portion, based upon a share or percentage, to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
While general average traces इसके origins in ancient maritime law, still it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries.
the पहला संहिताकरण of सामान्य average was the York Antwerp Rules of 1890.
American कंपनियाँ accepted it in 1949.
General average requires three elements which are clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
`` 1st.
A common danger : a खतरे in which vessel, cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and apparently 'inevitable, ' except by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting away, of some portion of the joint concern for the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the imminent common peril must be कामयाब ''.
उदाहरण पॉलिश call for vaccination against Diphtheria and Tetanus.
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations, including the timing of all doses, जिससे may be either recommended or compulsory, depending on the country of residence.
A vaccine is an antigenic तैयारी प्रयुक्त to produce active immunity to a disease, in order to prevent or reduce the effects of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness, either to produce sufficient initial immune response or to boost response that fades over time.
For उदाहरण, टेटनस vaccine boosters are often recommended every 10 years.
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a locality while महती the number of health care system interactions.
Over the past two decades, the recommended vaccination schedule has grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as many new vaccines have been developed.
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain क्षेत्रों ( देशों, subnational areas, or at-risk populations ) where a disease is common.
For instance, yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of French Guiana, is recommended in certain regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to देशों साथ a history of the disease.
In developing countries, vaccine recommendations also take into account the level of health care access, the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability और भंडार.
नमूना vaccinations schedules discussed by the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life and uses vaccines which cost over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing country uses a schedule providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25.
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care, the lower cost of many vaccines provided to developing nations, and that more expensive vaccines, often for कम आम रोगों, हैं नहीं utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox vaccine was the तभी एक administered to children.
By the early 1950s, children routinely received four vaccines, for protection against ( diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, and smallpox ), और as अनेक as पाँच गोलियाँ by two years of age.
चूंकि the mid-1980s, many vaccines have been added to the schedule.
, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) now recommends vaccination विरूद्ध at least fourteen diseases.
By two years of age, U.S. children receive as many as 24 vaccine injections, and might receive up to five गोलियाँ during one visit to the doctor.
The use of combination टीका उत्पाद अर्थात् कि,, the United Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by the age of two, rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection.
Two revellers dance in the गलियों.
The form of नाचना is called `` wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A म्यूज़िक ट्रक entertains the crowd on the streets.
Trucks are an integral part of the street parade, featuring live प्रदर्शन or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual event आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार before Ash Wednesday, and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations.
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event on the islands ' सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन पंचांग, with numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday.
It is said that if the islanders are not celebrating it, then they are preparing for it, while reminiscing about the पास्ट साल 's पर्व.
The heart of the musical जश्न रै been calypso ; recently soca has replaced calypso as the most celebrated type of music.
Costumes, stickfighting and limbo competitions are also important components of the पर्व.
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and टोबैगो is भी मनाये in cities worldwide.
These including Toronto 's Caribana, मियामी 's मियामी कार्निवल, ह्यूस्टन carifest, London 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few.
Carnival was created when West African slaves mimicked their French owners who where known for their lavish वेशभूषा balls.
Forbidden to partake in ये festivities and confined to their quarters, slaves combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete.
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ), Midnight Robbers, Imps, Lagahroo, soucouyant, La Diablesse and Demons.
With the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed Africans took their version of Carnival to the streets through expression of drums, riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered त्रिनिदाद, कार्निवल evolved into what we know today.
The city of Chicago, Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव on Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley, a member of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो had been in office since 1989, did not seek a seventh term as mayor.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by November 22, 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot.
April 5, 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff चुनाव तिथि if no प्रत्याशी प्राप्त an absolute majority.
Rahm Emanuel won the रेस लिये महापौर साथ more than 55 % of the vote.
He was inaugurated on May 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up kicks '' is a song by American indie pop band Foster the People.
It was released as the समूह 's डेब्यू single in September 2010, and the following year was included on their EP Foster the People and their debut album Torches.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's breakthrough hit and was one of the most popular गीतों of 2011.
The song थी लिखा और अंकित by frontman Mark Foster while he was working as a commercial jingle writer.
Contrasting with the upbeat musical composition, the lyrics describe the homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth.
The track received considerable attention after it was posted online in 2010 as a free download, and it helped the group garner a multi-album record सौदे with Columbia Records imprint Startime International.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011, after receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations, the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations.
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य, बनाना it the पहला बिलबोर्ड Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
The song was widely praised by आलोचकों, और it रै been licensed for use in a wide range of popular media since its release.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a Grammy पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये Best Pop Duo/Group Performance.
The State Fair of West Virginia is an सालाना state fair for West Virginia.
It is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in Fairlea, near Lewisburg, West वर्जिनिया in the southeastern part of the state.
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for carnivals and प्रदर्शनियों, a घोड़ा track, grandstands, and several exhibition buildings.
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and, until 2006, free कैंप थी भी उपलब्धियाँ in a large field with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
Campers are now चार्ज a small fee.
The White House, the president 's आधिकारिक निवास और बीच of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the President of the United राज्य is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the कार्यपालिका शाखा और सिर of the संघीय सरकारी as a whole, the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President more than twice, और no एक जो रै served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from office of an incumbent अध्यक्ष, the वाइस President assumes the office.
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the संयुक्त States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United राज्य संविधान, जिससे took effect on March 4, 1789.
लिये अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन, देखिए अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस.
The list does not include any Acting Presidents under the twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry हैरिसन, zachary टेलर, वारेन G. हार्डिंग, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first अध्यक्ष, थी उदघाटन in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve सालो, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected after महिलाओं gained voting rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison and जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the लोकप्रिय vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, and the current president, Barack Obama, is the first president of African descent.
`` Lombardi Trophy '' redirects यहाँ.
For the award awarded annually to the बेहतरीन college football lineman or linebacker, see Lombardi Award.
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded each year to the winning team of the National Football League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
The trophy is named in honor of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi.
This is a list of tables of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically deals in longevity research, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent van Gogh जब वो was 12 or 13.
This led to news media ध्यान in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found दस्तावेज़ीकरण for Calment 's age, beyond any reasonable question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the आयु of the संसार 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura, who currently lives in जापानी and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United राज्य, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 कूच 1898.
The People 's Court is an American arbitration-based reality court show, currently presided over by retired Florida State Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian, in which small claims disputes are handled.
The People 's Court is the first court show to use binding मध्यस्थता, introducing the format into the genre in 1981.
The system has been duplicated by most of the show 's successors in the judicial genre.
Moreover, The People 's Court is the first popular, long-running reality in the judicial genre.
It was preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the विधा ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों were only loosely related to judicial proceedings, except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings.
Prior to The People 's Court, the vast majority of TV courtroom shows used actors, and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ).
Among examples of these types of court shows include Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness.
The People 's Court has था दो चिहृ lives.
The show 's first life was presided over solely by former लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी श्रेष्ठ Court Judge Joseph Wapner.
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September 14, 1981, जबतक May 21, 1993, when the show was cancelled due to low ratings.
इस बाएँ the दिखाएँ साथ a कुल of 2,484 1⁄2-hour एपीसोड और 12 सीज़न.
the show was taped in Los Angeles during its first life.
After being cancelled, reruns aired जबतक September 9, 1994.
On September 8, 1997, after being out of production for four years, The लोगों 's अदालत थी revived लिये a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program.
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter, which he maintained for 2 seasons from the 1997–98 season through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the उपस्थित जीवन 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 season, husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge जुडी ) और पूर्व नई यॉर्क राज्य परम् अदालत Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch.
Sheindlin lasted एक और a हाफ seasons as he was replaced towards the end of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ).
Beginning in spring 2001, Florida judge मर्लिन milian took over The People 's Court and has presided over the show ever since.
Once milian completes the 2012–13 season, she will have served as longest arbiter over the series with 12 and a half seasons.
As of the present, however, her सालो on the कार्यक्रम tie Wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 television season, The People 's न्यायालयों 2nd/present जीवन outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons.
While the show taped in New York City for the first 15 सीज़न of इसके second life, it now tapes in Stamford, Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season.
On September 3, 2012, The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered its 16th season ( 28th overall season ).
With 28 total seasons, The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the ongoing तलाक अदालत at 33 सीज़न ( from its 3 combined lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the Western United States.
It became the 45th state admitted to the Union on जनवरी 4, 1896.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front, centering on Salt Lake City, leaving vast expanses of the state nearly uninhabited and बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the u.S. यूटा is bordered by Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, Idaho on the north, Arizona on the south, and Nevada on the west.
It also touches a corner of नई मैक्सिको on the southeast.
Utah is the सबसे religiously homogeneous state in the Union.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or LDS ( Mormons ), which greatly प्रभाव यूटा संस्कृति और रोज़ life.
The world headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's राज्य capital.
The state is a center of transportation, education, information technology and research, government services, mining, and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates, Utah is the पांचवां fastest-growing राज्य in the United States as of 2012.
St. George, थी the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United States from 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` best state to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking measurements including various economic, lifestyle, and health-related outlook metrics.
Coldwater is a small town in Tate County, मिसिसिपी.
It is in the Memphis महानगर Area.
The population was 1,674 at the 2000 census.
The hard palate is a thin horizontal bony थाली of the कपाल, located in the roof of the mouth.
It spans the arch formed by the upper teeth.
It is formed by the palatine process of the maxilla and horizontal plate of palatine bone.
It forms a विभाजन between the nasal passages and the mouth.
भी on the अग्रवर्ती portion of the छत of the hard palate is the Rugae which are the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx.
This partition is continued deeper into the mouth by a fleshy एक्सटेंशन पुकारा the soft palate.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a name प्रयुक्त in judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
the tanakh is also known as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` शिक्षण '', भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is read '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
Sobriety नाका in Germany
Driving under the influence ( DUI ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), drunken driving, drunk driving, drink driving, operating under the influence, drinking and driving, or impaired driving is the crime of driving a motor vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of a विधिक सीमा ( `` रक्त Alcohol Content '', or `` BAC '' ).
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of मशीनरी जबकि प्रभावित by पीने दारू or लेने other drugs, including, but not limited to prescription drugs.
This is a criminal offense in सबसे राष्ट्र.
Convictions do not necessarily involve actual ड्राइविंग of the गाडी.
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood दारू सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज level, such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol.
In some jurisdictions, there is an aggravated category of the ठोकर at a उच्चतर स्तर e.g. 0.12 %.
In most countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can be heavily fined, as in France, in addition to being given a lengthy prison sentence.
Some jobs have उनके अपना नियम और bac हद, लिये उदाहरण commercial pilot, and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example, the state of California has a 0.08 % BAC limit, which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license.
the California BAC limit is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 years of age and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction.
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own bac सीमा of 0.02 % कि, if violated during a random test or a for-cause test — for example, after a traffic accident — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in sentencing laws that enforce strict guidelines on sentencing, differing from पिछला practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued.
Some jurisdictions have न्यायिक दिशानिर्देश requiring a mandatory minimum sentence.
Penalties लिये dui आरोप दायरा इससे महंगी शुल्क to forfetiruree of अपना अनुज्ञा प्लेटों और in कुछ गंभीर हालातों, अपना गाडी.
A drunk ड्राइविंग सिम्युलेटर in Montréal, Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called, depending on the क्षेत्राधिकार, ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence [ of दारू or अन्य दवाएँ ] ( dui ), ड्राइविंग under intense influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), operating under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ), operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ), driving under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs, driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ].
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling, boating, piloting aircraft, use of motile farm equipment such as tractors and combines, riding horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, संभवतः साथ अलग bac स्तर than driving.
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the vehicle used, ऐसे as bwi ( bicycling जबकि intoxicated ), which may carry a lighter sentence.
In the United States, local law enforcement एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले देशभर लिये driving under the influence of alcohol in 1996, compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983.
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI offenders were in prison or jail, down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from US कस्टम and Border Protection boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is one of three major components of the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली of the United States, along with courts and corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the different groups that make up the criminal इंसाफ प्रणाली आधारित on उनके अपराधों deterrence purpose, प्रत्येक component operates independently from one another.
However, the judiciary is vested साथ the power to make legal determinations regarding the conduct of the other two components.
Apart from maintaining order and service functions, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected criminal activity and the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts.
Law enforcement, to varying degrees at different levels of government and in different agencies, is also commonly charged with the responsibilities of deterring दण्ड कार्यकलाप और of preventing the कामयाब commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants, writs and other orders of the courts.
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and other threats to public safety ; the सुरक्षा of निश्चित public facilities and infrastructure ; the maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born जून 28, 1968 ), best known under the stage name Chayanne, is a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor.
as a सोलो कलाकार, chayanne रै released 21 सोलो एल्बम और बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
`` World War Hulk '' is a comic book crossover कथानक कि भागा through a स्वः titled सीमित series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007, featuring the Hulk.
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk, with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita, Jr. as penciller, and three other limited series : World War Hulk : Front Line, संसार युद्ध हल्क : गामा corps, और संसार युद्ध Hulk : X-Men.
It also ran through अनेक other Marvel comics series.
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the Illuminati and a life model decoy of Nick Fury, the Hulk 's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati.
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26, 1907 – June 11, 1979 ), better known by his stage name John Wayne, was an अमरीकी फिल्मी कर्ता, निदेशक and producer.
An Academy Award -winner, Wayne was among the top box office draws for three decades, and was named the all-time top money-making star.
An enduring American icon, he epitomized rugged masculinity and is famous for his demeanor, including his distinctive calm voice, walk, and height.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa but his family relocated to the वृहद Los Angeles area when he was four years old.
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football scholarship to यूएससी as a result of a bodysurfing accident.
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation, he mostly appeared in छोटी bit parts.
His first leading role came in the वाइडस्क्रीन एपिक the बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ), जिससे led to leading roles in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of them in the western genre.
His career rose to further heights in 1939, with John Ford 's Stagecoach making उसे an तत्काल superstar.
Wayne would go on to स्टार in 142 pictures, primarily typecast in Western films.
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ), which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster निभाई by maureen o'hara ; the searchers ( 1956 ), in जिससे he plays a सिविल युद्ध दिग्गज who seeks out his abducted niece ; Rio Bravo ( 1959 ), playing a Sheriff with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous U.S. Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ), his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
Wayne moved to Orange County, California in the 1960s, and was a prominent Republican in Hollywood, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of पेट cancer in 1979.
In June 1999, the American Film Institute named Wayne 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of सब समय.
गैलीलियो गैलिली ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ), was an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution.
His उपलब्धियाँ शामिल improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism.
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational astronomy ``, the `` father of modern physics ``, the `` father of विज्ञान '', और `` the Father of Modern Science ''.
His contributions to observational खगोलशास्त्र include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus, the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour ), and the observation and analysis of sunspots.
Galileo also worked in applied science and technology, inventing an improved military compass and other instruments.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime, when most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system.
He met with opposition from खगोलशास्त्रियों, who doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed stellar parallax.
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615, and they concluded that it could be समर्थित as only a possibility, not an established fact.
Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, which appeared to आक्रमण पोप शहरी viii और यूँ alienated him and the Jesuits, who had both supported Galileo up until this point.
He was tried by the Inquisition, found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '', मजबूर to recant, और खर्च the बाकी of उसके जीवन अंतर्गत हाउस arrest.
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote one of his finest works, दो नई sciences, in जिससे he summarised the कार्य he had done some forty years earlier, on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials.
55 '' LG OLED TV showcased at CES 2012
Prototype oled lighting फलक developed by Lumiotec
Demonstration of a flexible OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( led ) in जिससे the emissive electroluminescent परत is a फिल्मी of सशुल्क compound which emits light in response to an electric current.
This layer of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between two electrodes.
Generally, at least one of these electrodes is पारदर्शी.
OLEDs are used to बनाएँ डिजिटल प्रदर्शक in devices such as television screens, computer monitors, portable systems such as mobile phones, handheld games consoles and PDAs.
A major area of research is the development of white OLED devices लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting applications.
There are two main families of OLEDs : those based on small अणुओं और those employing polymers.
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or लैक, जिससे has a slightly different mode of operation.
OLED प्रदर्शक can use either passive-matrix ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix addressing schemes.
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a thin-film transistor backplane to switch each individual pixel on or off, but allow for higher resolution and larger प्रदर्शक आकार.
An oled प्रदर्शक works without a backlight.
Thus, it can display deep black levels and can be thinner और हल्का than a द्रव crystal display ( LCD ).
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room an OLED screen can achieve a higher contrast ratio than an LCD, whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal, Canada, showing its French facade ( English reverse ) and the French term लेत de poule ( literally, `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally made with milk and/or cream, sugar, and whipped eggs ( जिससे देता it a frothy texture ).
Brandy, rum, whisky, bourbon, vodka, or a combination of liquors हैं often added.
The finished serving is often garnished with a sprinkling of ground cinnamon or जायफल.
It was also known as the egg milk punch.
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout the United States and Canada, और is प्रायः संबद्ध with Christmas.
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to food or drinks such as कॉफी और tea.
Eggnog as a custard can भी be प्रयुक्त as an ice cream base.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish pasty, and in the United States as a pastie or British pasty ) is a baked pastry, a traditional variety of which is particularly संबद्ध with Cornwall, the westernmost county in England.
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of मांस और vegetables, without meat in vegetarian versions, on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling, crimping the edge to form a seal.
After baking, the परिणाम is a raised semicircular comestible.
The traditional Cornish pasty, which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe, is filled with beef, sliced or diced potato, swede ( also known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) and onion, seasoned with salt and pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the food most संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल, it is regarded as the national dish, and it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish food economy.
Pasties with many different fillings are made ; some shops specialise in selling all sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty हैं unclear, though there are many references to them throughout historical documents and fiction.
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of Cornish miners, and variations can be found in Australia, the United राज्य, मैक्सिको और elsewhere.
the ( ortho- ) सहानुभूतिपूर्ण nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic nervous system : the others being the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
Its general action is to mobilize the देह 's बेचैन प्रणाली fight-or-flight response.
It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices, such as मोबाईल फोन, डिजिटल कैमरे, gps नेविगेशन devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital मानक is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format includes four कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन different form factors.
The four families are the original standard-capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors are the original size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of form factors and यंत्र परिवारों.
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger कार्ड.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide पिछड़ा compatibility and accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may प्रस्ताव वृहद capacity than the host device can handle.
A newer card may use a file system the host यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The organization of the card was changed starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the SDA had standardized a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ and assure users of compatibility.
the following is a List of critics of the New Deal.
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born फ़रवरी 17, 1963 ) बेहतरीन ज्ञात by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy, is an American stand-up comedian, actor, country music artist, voice actor, and former radio personality.
he थी एक of the सदस्यों of the ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी दौरे, a कॉमेडी troupe जिससे शामिल विधेयक engvall, रॉन श्वेत, और जेफ़ foxworthy ( साथ जिसको he रै स्ट्रक्चर on ब्लू कॉलर tv ).
Whitney has released seven comedy albums, of which three have been certified gold by the riaa लिये शिपमेंट of 500,000 copies.
In addition, he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies, as well as in the films Larry the Cable Guy : Health इंस्पेक्टर, डेल्टा तमाशा, और witless सुरक्षा, as खूब as voicing मेटर in the Cars franchise.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done ! '' is also the title of his book.
on जनवरी 26, 2010, the tv चैनल इतिहास घोषित कि it थी ordering a श्रेणी अभिनीत व्हिटनी पुकारा तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the केबल guy, in जिससे he होता explore the देश और immerse खुद in अलग lifestyles, कार्य, और hobbies.
the पहला एपीसोड of the series aired on February 8, 2011.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium और phosphate.
In humans, the most important related compounds of vitamin D are vitamin d2 और विटामिन D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although विटामिन d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is नहीं actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and जरूर प्राप्त it in their diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to स्टेपल भोजन, ऐसे as मिल्क, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet, and it is believed that synthesis may योगदान generally to the मेंटेनेंस of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference intakes लिये विटामिन D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol, the biologically क्रियाशील form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of लाभ is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women.
मानक form of the periodic table.
The colors represent अलग श्रेणी of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a tabular प्रदर्शक of the रासायनिक तत्व, organized on the basis of their atomic numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements are प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of elements, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks are पुकारा समूह, with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates recurring रुझान, कोई ऐसे तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
as a परिणाम, a आवधिक table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the पहला widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the गुण of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted some गुण of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of उसके पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved correct when the elements in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, हालांकि कुछ are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate कोई such additions being a matter of ongoing debate.
numerous सिंथेटिक radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories.
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa, गुआम, प्यूर्टो रीको, वर्जिन आइलैंड्स ), as of Jan. 1, 2013.
In the United States, workers are generally entitled to be सशुल्क no less than the statutory minimum wage.
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per hour, while some states and municipalities have set न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर उच्चतर than the संघीय level, with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013.
Among those paid by the hour in 2012, 1.6 million were reported as earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage.
About 2.0 million were reported as earning wages below the minimum.
Together, these 3.6 million workers साथ मजदूरी at or below the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers.
A selection of Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor store in decatur, जॉर्जिया
evan विलियम्स bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a प्रकार of American whiskey – a barrel-aged distilled spirit made primarily from corn.
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an area known as Old Bourbon, around what is now Bourbon County, Kentucky ( which, in फेरे, was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
it रै महरूम produced since the 18th century.
While it may be made anywhere in the United States, it is strongly संबद्ध साथ the अमरीकी दक्षिण in general, and Kentucky in particular.
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da विंची, जिससे रै महरूम acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world. ''
The painting, thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of Francesco del Giocondo, is in oil on a poplar panel, and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506.
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the प्रॉपर्टी of the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र, on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797.
The ambiguity of the subject 's अभिव्यक्ति, जिससे is अक्सर वर्णित as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
रॉबर्ट एलन पामर ( 19 जनवरी 1949 – 26 सितंबर 2003 ), was an English singer-songwriter and musician.
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of musical styles on his albums, combining soul, jazz, चट्टान, पॉप, रेगी and blues.
He found success both in his solo career and in the musical act The Power Station, and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US.
His iconic music videos by Terence डोनोवन लिये the हिट्स `` आदी to प्रेम `` और `` बस irresistible `` प्रदर्शित identically dressed dancing women with pale faces, dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick, which resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel, an artist popular in the 1980s.
Sharp-suited, his involvement in the music industry commenced in the 1960s, covered पाँच दशकों और शामिल a spell with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, an MTV Video Music Award, and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male.
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed tomography तकनीक प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body.
This ranges from arteries serving the brain to those bringing रक्त to the फेफड़े, गुर्दे, arms and legs.
The Champs-Élysées decorated साथ ध्वज लिये bastille Day
horseman of the French Republican Guard during the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées.
Prise de la Bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
Bastille दिन is the नाम दिए in English-speaking countries to the French National Day, which is celebrated on the 14th of July each year.
In France, it is formally पुकारा la fête nationale ( ; the National Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ).
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération, held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was seen as a symbol of the uprising of the modern nation, and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic, during the French Revolution.
Festivities and official ceremonies are held all over फ़्रांस.
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 July, on the Champs-Élysées avenue in Paris in front of the President of the Republic, French officials and foreign guests.
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ), commonly called the United States ( US or U.S. ) or America, is a federal republic consisting of fifty states and a federal district.
The निम्नतर forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of Washington, D.C. are in central North America between Canada and Mexico.
The state of Alaska is west of कनाडा and east of Russia across the Bering Strait, and the state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific.
The country also has five आबादी और nine unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean.
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people, the United States is the third- or fourth-largest देश by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the third-largest by both land area and population.
it is एक of the world 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries.
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also अत्यधिक diverse, with deserts, plains, forests, and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species.
Paleoindians migrated इससे Asia to what is now the United States mainland around 15,000 years ago.
After 1500, बूढ़ा संसार रोगों introduced by Europeans greatly reduced their populations.
यूरोपीय colonization began around 1600 and came mostly from England.
The United States emerged from thirteen British colonies स्तिथ साथ the Atlantic seaboard.
Disputes between Great Britain and the American colonies led to the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
On July 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued the Declaration of Independence, जिससे स्थापित the United States of America.
The American Revolutionary War, which ended with the recognition of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of Great ब्रिटेन, was the first successful war of independence against a European colonial empire.
The current संविधान थी अपनाया on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have since been added to the Constitution.
The first ten amendments, collectively named the Bill of Rights, were ratified in 1791 and guarantee many आधारभूत सिविल अधिकारों और freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny, the संयुक्त राज्य embarked on a vigorous expansion across North America throughout the 19th century.
This involved displacing देशी जनजातियों, acquiring new territories, and gradually admitting new states.
The American Civil War ended legalized slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य.
By the end of the nineteenth century, the United States extended into the Pacific Ocean, और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था was the world 's largest.
The spanish–american युद्ध और confirmed the country 's status as a global military power.
The United राज्य उभरा इससे as a global superpower, the first country with nuclear weapons, and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
The समाप्त of the ठंडा War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union left the United States as the sole superpower.
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy, with an estimated 2012 GDP of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of वैश्विक जीडीपी at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although America 's wealth inequality was also ranked highest among OECD देशों by the संसार Bank.
The economy is fueled by an abundance of natural resources, a well-developed infrastructure, और ऊँची उत्पादकता ; and while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers.
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending, और is a अग्रणी आर्थिक, राजनैतिक, और cultural force in the world, as well as a leader in scientific research and technological innovation.
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each वसन्त in the संयुक्त States, currently featuring 68 college basketball teams, to determine the national championship of the major college basketball teams.
The tournament, organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ), was created during 1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches, and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen.
Played mostly during March, it is known informally as March Madness or the Big Dance, और रै become एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध annual sporting events in the United States.
The ncaa रै credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle Organizing Committee for starting the March Madness celebration during 1984.
The tournament teams include champions from 31 Division I conferences ( which प्राप्त स्वचालित बोलियों ), and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' टीमों हैं चुनी by an NCAA selection committee, as detailed below.
The 64 teams are divided into चार regions and organized into a single elimination `` bracket '', which predetermines, when a team wins a game, which team it will face next.
Each team is `` seeded '', or ranked, within its region.
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked teams, the tournament occurs during the course of three weekends, at pre-selected neutral साइट around the United States.
lower-ranked टीमों हैं placed in the bracket against higher ranked teams.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a round of 64, to a `` Sweet Sixteen '', and for the last weekend of the Tournament a Final Four ; the Final Four is usually निभाई दौरान the पहला वीकेंड of April.
These four teams, one from each region, then compete in one location for the national championship.
The tournament has महरूम at least partially televised since 1969.
Presently, the games are reported by CBS, TBS, TNT, and trutv by the trade-name NCAA March Madness.
Since 2011, all games are available लिये देखने देशभर.
As television coverage has grown, so too has the टूर्नामेंट 's popularity.
Presently, लाखो of Americans `` fill out a bracket '', predicting winners of all 67 games.
With 11 national titles, UCLA has the record for the सबसे ncaa मेन 's प्रभाग I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
The University of Kentucky is second, with 8 national titles, while Indiana University and the University of North कैरोलिना हैं tied for third with 5 national titles.
ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों ranks fifth with 4 national titles.
A नमूना of synthetic motor oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical compounds that are artificially बना ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil, but can also be synthesized from other raw materials.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of temperature, क्युकी, in general, it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties than those found in traditional mineral oils.
Aircraft jet engines, for example, आवश्यकता the use of synthetic oils, whereas aircraft piston engines do not.
Jackass is an American reality series, originally shown on एमटीवी इससे 2000 to 2002, featuring लोगों performing विभिन्न खतरनाक, crude self-injuring stunts and pranks.
The show served as a launchpad for the television and acting करियर of bam margera, steve-o, and also Johnny Knoxville, who previously had only a few minor acting roles.
Since 2002, three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV corporate sibling Paramount तस्वीरें, continuing the मताधिकार after its run on television.
The show sparked अनेक spin-offs including Viva La Bam, Wildboyz, Homewrecker, Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid.
The दिखाएँ लगाई # 68 on Entertainment Weekly `` New TV Classics '' list.
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3, 1952 ) is an American actress, comedienne, writer, टेलीविज़न निर्माता, निदेशक, and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party.
Barr began उसके करियर in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining fame for her role in the sitcom Roseanne.
The दिखाएँ थी a hit and lasted nine seasons, from 1988 to 1997.
She won both an Emmy और a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये Best Actress for her work on the show.
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a strong mother who was not a शिकार of patriarchal consumerism.
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and रूस, barr थी the oldest of four children in a working-class Jewish Salt Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she married Bill Pentland, with whom she had three children, before divorcing in 1990 and marrying हास्य tom अर्नाल्ड for four years.
विवाद arose जब वो sang `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game, followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting.
After her sitcom ended, she launched her own talk show, The roseanne Show, which aired from 1998 to 2000.
In 2005, वो लौटे to stand-up comedy with a world tour.
In 2011, she starred in an unscripted TV show, roseanne 's nuts, कि lasted इससे जुलाई to September of that year, about her life on a Hawaiian farm.
In early 2012, Barr announced उसके उम्मीदवारी for the Presidential nomination of the Green Party.
Barr lost the नामांकन to Jill Stein.
She then sought the presidential nomination of the Peace and Freedom Party, which she won on August 4, 2012.
Barr प्राप्त 61,971 votes in the general election, placing sixth overall.
Francesco Albani 's 17th century Baptism of Christ is a typical depiction साथ the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
The baptism of Jesus marks the beginning of his public ministry.
This event is अंकित in the canonical gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke.
John 's gospel does not describe Jesus ' baptism, but John the बैपटिस्ट करता testify of the other things in.
In the नई वसीयत, जॉन the बैपटिस्ट preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins ( ), and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ).
In so doing he was preparing the रास्ता लिये Jesus.
Jesus came to the Jordan River where he was baptized by जॉन.
The baptismal scene includes the heavens opening, a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit, and a voice from heaven saying, `` This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus was baptized by जॉन as an ऐतिहासिक event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically निश्चित तथ्य परिचय उसे, और प्रायः use it as the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus.
The baptism is one of the पाँच प्रमुख माइलस्टोन in the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus, the others being the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension.
Most Christian denominations दृश्य the बपतिस्मा of Jesus as an important event and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ).
In Eastern Christianity, Jesus ' baptism is commemorated on 6 जनवरी, the feast of Epiphany.
In the Roman Catholic Church, the Anglican Communion, the Lutheran Churches and some other Western denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the Lord.
In Roman Catholicism, the baptism of Jesus is one of the Luminous Mysteries sometimes added to the rosary.
It is a Trinitarian feast in the पूर्वी Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of विटामिन B12.
physically it resembles the अन्य forms of vitamin B12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, विटामिन b12 or विटामिन B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the eight B विटामिन.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the इंसान body, especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor animals are capable of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and आर्किया have the enzymes required for its synthesis, although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
it contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ), but conversion between different फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be संपन्नता in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, but is produced from बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, and adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The extra utility of ये is फिलहाल debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious रक्ताल्पता, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12, so a lack of intrinsic फ़ैक्टर, as seen in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film produced, directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The short-timers और सितारों मैथ्यू modine, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, Arliss Howard, and Adam Baldwin.
The film follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War.
The film 's title refers to the full metal jacket bullet used by infantry riflemen.
The film received नाजुक acclaim.
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay for Kubrick, माइकल हेर और गुस्ताव hasford.
In 2001, the American Film Institute placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in उनके `` एएफआई 's 100 Years... 100 Thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a हस्ती न्यूज जालस्थल that debuted on November 8, 2005.
It was a collaboration between AOL and telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स, a division of Warner Bros., until Time Warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained affiliated with AOL News और रै the AOL News logo affixed in the upper right corner.
The name TMZ stands for the historic `` स्टुडियो मण्डल `` or 30-mile zone radius from the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles.
TMZ 's managing एडिटर is घनघोर levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist who was previously a legal expert for the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV.
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however, Levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories ''.
Levin has stated कि `` सबकुछ is researched and vetted for accuracy. ''
A companion TV श्रेणी, TMZ on TV, debuted on September 10, 2007.
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher फिल्मी निर्मित by केविन Williamson, directed by Wes Craven and written by Ehren Kruger, starring Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette.
It was released on फ़रवरी 4, 2000 as the third installment in the Scream film series.
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the previous two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre with comedy and `` whodunit `` mystery while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the previous Scream films, there थी an increased emphasis on comedic elements and the violence and horror was reduced in response to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre.
The film was the concluding chapter of the Scream series until it was revived with a sequel, चीख 4, in 2011.
Williamson provided a five-page outline for two sequels to Scream when auctioning his original script, hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties were undertaken by ehren क्रूगर जो discarded much of Williamson 's notes.
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to सीधा और स्कोर the film respectively as they had with the previous two series entries.
Production was troubled with script rewrites, with pages sometimes only ready on the दिन of फिल्मांकन, और scheduling difficulties with the main cast.
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically बदतर than इसके preceding films, कमाई over $ 161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite negative criticism the film did receive praise with reviewers calling it the पूर्ण समाप्त to the चीख trilogy.
As of 2012, the film is फिलहाल the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in North America, following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2.
The film 's soundtrack was well-received, बिता चौदह सप्ताह on the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of # 32.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, also called painful arc syndrome, supraspinatus syndrome, swimmer 's shoulder, and thrower 's shoulder, is a clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
This can result in pain, weakness and loss of movement at the shoulder.
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC Comics from January 1997 to अप्रैल 2006 featuring the Justice League.
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of European settlements from the प्रारंभ of colonization of अमेरिका until their incorporation into the United States.
In the late 16th century, England, France, Spain and the Netherlands launched प्रमुख colonization कार्यक्रम in eastern North America.
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत रेट of the पहला आमद was very high.
Nevertheless successful colonies were established.
European settlers came from a variety of social and धार्मिक groups.
No aristocrats settled permanently, but a number of adventurers, soldiers, किसानो, और tradesmen arrived.
Diversity थी an अमरीकी characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland, the Swedes and Finns of New Sweden, the English Quakers of Pennsylvania, the English Puritans of New England, the English settlers of Jamestown, and the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia, came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social, religious, political and economic styles.
Occasionally one colony took कंट्रोल of another ( during wars between their European parents ).
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the conquerors निकाल the previous colonists.
Instead they all lived side by side in peace.
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies, and the two chief armed rebellions ( in वर्जिनिया in 1676 और in नई York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures.
Wars between the फ्रेंच और the british—the फ्रेंच और Indian Wars and Father Rale 's War —were recurrent, and involved French-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
By 1760 France was defeated and the अंग्रेजों seized its colonies.
The four distinct regions यहूद : New England, the Middle Colonies, the Chesapeake Bay Colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South.
Some historians add a fifth region, the frontier, जिससे थी never separately organized.
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated by new diseases, introduced to them decades before by explorers and sailors.
See timeline of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका for list of historical events.
Gloria Laura वेंडरबिल्ट ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1924 ) is an American artist, author, actress, heiress, and socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans.
She is a member of the prominent Vanderbilt family of New York and the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper.
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ), officially the Hellenic गणतंत्र ( ' ), is a देश in southeast Europe.
According to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 million.
Athens is the nation 's capital and largest नगर, इसके शहरी क्षेत्रफल also including Piraeus.
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, and has land borders with Albania, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the उत्तर, और तुर्कों to the northeast.
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece, the Ionian Sea to the west, and the भूमध्यसागरीय समुद्र to the south.
Greece has the 11th longest तटरेखा in the संसार at in लंबाई, featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400, of which 227 are inhabited ), including Crete, the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, and the Ionian Islands among others.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of kyu, of जिससे माउंट ओलम्पस is the highest at.
Modern Greece traces its roots to the सभ्यता of प्राचीन यूनानियों, generally considered the cradle of Western civilization.
As such, it is the birthplace of democracy, Western philosophy, the Olympic Games, पश्चिमी साहित्य और historiography, राजनैतिक विज्ञान, major scientific and mathematical principles, and Western drama, including both tragedy and comedy.
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO World Heritage Sites स्तिथ in यूनानियों, ranking it 7th in Europe and 13th in the world.
The modern Greek state was स्थापित in 1830, following the Greek War of Independence.
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations, रै महरूम a सदस्य of कया is now the European Union since 1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001 ), and has been a member of NATO since 1952.
Greece is a developed country with an advanced, high-income economy and very high standards of living, including the world 's 21st highest विशेषता of जीवन as of 2010.
Greece 's economy is also the largest in the Balkans, where Greece is an important regional investor.
A prime meridian is a मध्याह्न, i.e. a line of longitude, at which longitude is defined to be 0°.
A प्रधान मध्याह्न and its opposite in a 360°-system, the 180th meridian ( at 180° longitude ), form a great circle.
This great circle divides the sphere, e.g. the Earth, into two hemispheres.
If one उपयोग दिशानिर्देश of ईस्ट and West from a defined prime meridian, then they can be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere.
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) उपयोग a प्रधान मध्याह्न somewhere close to 25°W, passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic.
उसके 180th meridian runs along the Strait of Anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary, नापसंद an equator, जिससे is संकल्पित by the axis of rotation—and various conventions have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout history.
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; June 24, 1980 ) is an American actress.
She is perhaps बेहतरीन ज्ञात for her roles in Charlie 's Angels, Friday Night Lights, and The Roommate.
R.O.B. ( Robotic Operating Buddy ), released in जापानी as the, is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ).
It was released in जुलाई 1985 in Japan and later that year in North America.
It had a छोटी उत्पाद जीवनकाल, with support for only two games which comprised the `` Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment System as something novel in order to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. was available in the Deluxe Set, a विन्यास लिये the कंसोल कि शामिल, among other things, R.O.B. and Gyromite.
Stack-Up was purchased separately और शामिल इसके अपना शारीरिक game pieces.
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece or half dollar coin issued by the United States Mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by एडाल्फ A. weinman.
In 1915, the new Mint Director, Robert W. Woolley, came to believe that he was not only allowed but required by law to replace coin designs कि था महरूम in use for 25 years.
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes, quarters and half dollars, all bearing similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber, and first struck in 1892.
woolley था the Commission of Fine Arts conduct a competition, as a result of which Weinman was selected to design the dime and half dollar.
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun for the half dollar proved difficult to perfect, और राजकोष सचिव विलियम G. mcadoo, जिनकी विभाग included the Mint, considered having Barber create his own design.
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into production, although it never struck very well, which may have been a factor in इसके बदलना by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948.
Nevertheless, आर्ट इतिहासकार Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to be among the most beautiful US coins.
Since 1986, a modification of weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन रै been used for the American Silver Eagle.
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( SUV ) produced by the Japanese manufacturer Toyota and sold throughout the संसार इससे 1984 to उपस्थित.
In Japan it was known as the Toyota hilux लहरे.
The original 4Runner was a कॉम्पैक्ट एसयूवी और छोटी अधिक than a टोयोटा पिकअप truck with a fiberglass shell over the bed, but the model has since undergone significant independent development into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV.
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara संयंत्र in tahara, Aichi, Japan, or at Hino Motors ' Hamura, Japan plant, and in Brazil.
Its mid-size क्रॉसओवर SUV counterpart is the Toyota Highlander.
This article deals with आयुर्विज्ञान as practiced by trained professionals from ancient times to the present.
The ancient Egyptians had a system of medicine कि थी बहुत उन्नत for its time and influenced later medical traditions.
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the concepts of diagnosis, prognosis, and medical examination.
The Greeks went भी further, और advanced as well medical ethics.
The Hippocratic Oath, स्टिल लिया by doctors today, was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE.
In the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the प्राचीन मास्टर्स यहूद improved और तब systematized in Rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery.
Universities began systematic training of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy.
दौरान the पुनर्जागरण, understanding of anatomy improved, and the microscope was invented.
The germ theory of disease in the 19th century led to cures लिये अनेक संक्रामक diseases.
Military doctors advanced the methods of trauma treatment and surgery.
Public health measures were developed especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required व्यवस्थित sanitary उपायों.
Advanced research centers opened in the जल्दी 20th सदी, प्रायः कनेक्ट with major hospitals.
The mid-20th century was characterized by नई biological treatments, such as antibiotics.
These advancements, साथ साथ developments in रसायन, genetics, and lab technology ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine.
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th सदी, और new careers opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ).
The 21st century is characterized by very advanced research involving numerous फ़ील्ड of science.
the hippocratic कॉर्पस, is a collection of early medical works from ancient Greece strongly associated with the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings.
Potassium is a chemical element साथ symbol K ( from Neo-Latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत प्रतिक्रिया with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Because potassium and sodium are chemically बहुत समान, उनके salts were not at first differentiated.
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702, and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis.
पोटैशियम in nature occurs only in ionic salts.
As such, it is found dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 % potassium by weight ), and is part of many minerals.
Most industrial chemical अनुप्रयोग of पोटैशियम employ the relatively high solubility in water of potassium compounds, such as potassium soaps.
Potassium metal has only a few special applications, होने replaced in सबसे रासायनिक reactions with sodium metal.
Potassium ions are necessary for the फलन of सब living cells.
Potassium ion diffusion is a कुंजी यांत्रिकी in nerve transmission, and potassium depletion in animals, including humans, results in various cardiac dysfunctions.
Potassium accumulates in plant cells, and thus fresh फल और सब्जियां are a good dietary source of it.
conversely, सबसे पौधे except specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt, and sodium is present in them only in low concentration.
This resulted in potassium first being isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, giving the तत्व इसके नाम.
For the same reason, heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of वैश्विक potassium chemical production.
The Singapore dollar or डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; कोड : SGD ) is the official currency of Singapore.
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $, or alternatively S $ to distinguish it from other dollar -denominated currencies.
It is विभाजित into 100 cents.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of their two currencies, the singaporean डालर and the Brunei dollar, respectively.
The dollar is accepted as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement.
likewise, the Brunei dollar is customarily accepted in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) was an American sociologist, theorist and empirical researcher, based chiefly at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Chicago.
He was elected president of the American समाजशास्त्रीय Association.
Coleman studied the sociology of education, public policy, and was one of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the पद `` social capital ``.
His Foundations of Social Theory influenced sociological theory.
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity, 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in educational sociology.
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory, reshape national education policies, and influenced public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States.
Superman ( from DC comics ) was the first superhero निर्मित, आर्ट by Jim Lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is a type of stock character possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman powers '' और समर्पित to protecting the पब्लिक.
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938, stories of superheroes—ranging from brief episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have वर्चस्व अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे और crossed over into other media.
the word itself dates to at least 1917.
a मादा superhero is sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ).
`` SUPER HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned by DC Comics और Marvel Comics.
By most definitions, characters do नहीं सख्ती आवश्यकता वास्तविक superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes, हालांकि terms such as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits.
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden Age of Comic Books to distinguish them from characters with super-powers.
Normally, superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating threats against humanity by supervillains, their criminal counterparts.
Often, one of these supervillains will be the सुपरहीरो 's archenemy.
As well, some longrunning superheroes, ऐसे as सुपरमैन, Batman, Spider-Man and Iron Man each has a rogues gallery of enemies.
As well, superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular threats as aliens, magical/ fantasy entities, American युद्ध दुश्मनों ऐसे as नात्सीवाद or communism, and godlike or demonic creatures.
The following is a historical list of actors and primary character roles which appear on the American soap ओपेरा One Life to Live.
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and निर्देशित by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella रीता hayworth और shawshank मोचन, the फिल्मी tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who spends nearly two decades in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding, and finds himself protected by the गार्ड बाद the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation.
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget, the film received favorable समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, अनेक पुरस्कार nominations, and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It was included in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's 100 Years... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition.
IT management is the discipline whereby all of the technology resources of a firm are managed in accordance with its needs and प्राथमिकताएं.
These resources may include tangible investments like computer hardware, software, data, networks and data centre facilities, as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them.
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic management functions, like budgeting, staffing, and organizing and controlling, साथ साथ other aspects that are unique to technology, like change management, software design, network planning, tech support etc.
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot, which took place on February 2 and 3, 1980, in the state 's maximum security prison south of Santa Fe, was one of the most violent prison riots in the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries.
None of the 12 अधिकारियों लिया hostage were killed, but seven were treated for injuries caused by beatings and rapes.
This was the third major riot at the nm राज्य penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953.
Author Roger Morris suggests the मौत टोल may have महरूम उच्चतर, as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` रेड Cardinal '' redirects here.
For the संयंत्र Erythrina herbacea, see Coral Bean.
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or आम cardinal.
It can be found in southern Canada, through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico.
It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
The Northern Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a देह लंबाई of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and gray in the female.
The male is a vibrant red, जबकि the मादा is a dull red-brown shade.
The Northern Cardinal is mainly granivorous, but also feeds on कीट and fruit.
The male behaves territorially, marking out his territory साथ सोंग.
During courtship, the male feeds seed to the female beak-to-beak.
A clutch of three to four eggs is laid, and two to चार चंगुल हैं उत्पादित प्रत्येक year.
It was once prized as a pet, but its sale as cage birds is now banned in the संयुक्त राज्य by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918.
Surface runoff, also called nonpoint source प्रदूषण, इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in Iowa during a rain storm.
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers और अन्य संभावित pollutants run off unprotected farm fields when heavy rains occur.
Topsoil is the upper, outermost परत of soil, usually the top to.
It has the highest concentration of organic matter and microorganisms और is जहाँ सबसे of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in schoenberg 's sechs kleine klavierstücke, Op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
Note that the notes do not come in spelling order but are all adjacent ( not separated by other notes ).
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for solo piano written by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
McAfee, Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software कम्पनी headquartered in सांता क्लारा, California, and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company.
As of February 28, 2011, McAfee is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel.
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are Avira, BitDefender, BullGuard, f-secure, Frisk, Kaspersky, Symantec, and Trend Micro to name a few.
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born margherita lotti 1381 - May 22, 1457 ) was an Italian Augustinian nun, widow and saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church.
Rita was शादीशुदा at an early age.
The marriage lasted for 18 years, during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made efforts to बदलें उसके husband इससे उसके abusive behavior.
Upon the हत्या of उसके husband by another feuding family, she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters, where she was known for practicing mortification of the flesh, along with the apparent efficacy of उसके प्रार्थनाएं.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her सिफ़ारिश, और is प्रायः portrayed with a bleeding wound on her forehead, which the Roman Catholic Church claims to have been a partial stigmata.
The Roman Catholic Church, under the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII officially canonized रीता on may 24, 1900, while her feast day is celebrated every May 22.
In अनेक pious Catholic countries, Rita is known to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women.
North America is a continent wholly within the Northern Hemisphere and almost wholly within the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
It is also माना a उत्तरी subcontinent of the Americas.
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean, to the east by the अटलांटिक समंदर, to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण by the प्रशांत Ocean, and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea.
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers ( 9,540,000 वर्गाकार मील ), about 4.8 % of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area.
As of July 2008, its population was estimated at nearly 529 million people आरपार 23 स्वतंत्र states, representing about 7.5 % of the human population.
North America is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia and Africa, and the fourth in population after Asia, Africa, and Europe.
The first people to live in North America were Paleoindians who began to arrive during the last glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge.
They differentiated into a number of विविध संस्कृतियों और समुदायों across the continent.
The largest and most advanced pre-columbian civilizations in North America were the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries, wiping out large numbers of the native populations and beginning an era of यूरोपीय दबदबा.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), better known by his stage name J. Cole, is an American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from Fayetteville, North Carolina.
In 2009, he became the first artist to sign to Jay-Z 's आरओसी स्वदेश लेबल.
His long-awaited debut album, entitled Cole World : The Sideline Story, was released on September 27, 2011.
The album debuted at क्रमांक एक on the us बिलबोर्ड 200, Top R & B Albums and Top Rap Albums chart, selling more than 218,000 in its first week.
He received a nomination for Best New Artist at the 54th Grammy पुरस्कार.
The two main characters of the series, Ratchet ( right ) and Clank ( left ).
Ratchet & Clank is a series of मंच video games.
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles, such as PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 with the exclusion of Size Matters and Secret Agent Clank, which यहूद विकसित by High Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable.
Every game in the श्रेणी has been released for every console, as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment.
An animated विशेषता फिल्मी अनुकूलन उत्पादित by Rainmaker Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical release sometime in 2015.
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of ratchet ( an animalistic human-like अक्षर ज्ञात as a Lombax, who is a mechanic ) and Clank ( a diminutive, sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe, saving it from evil forces on a regular basis.
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and unique, over the शीर्ष weapons and devices, a concept that Insomniac Games also expanded into their other games.
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a person, the testator, names एक or अधिक व्यक्तियों to manage his/her estate and provides for the transfer of his property at death.
For the devolution of property not disposed of by होगा, देखिए उत्तराधिकार and intestacy.
In the strictest sense, a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of personal प्रॉपर्टी ( यूँ giving वृद्धि to the लोकप्रिय शीर्षक of the दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला Will and Testament '' ), though this distinction is seldom observed today.
A will may also create a testamentary trust that is effective only after the death of the testator.
The 19.9 mw gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive सौर or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and सौर thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ are global.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ), known to Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935, was an English lawyer, सोशल philosopher, author, statesman, and noted Renaissance humanist.
He was an important councillor to Henry VIII of England and was Lord Chancellor from अक्तूबर 1529 to 16 May 1532.
He was canonized by Pope Pius xi in 1935 as एक of the early martyrs of the schism that separated the Church of England from Rome in the 16th century.
In 2000, Pope John Paul II declared him patron of Catholic statesmen and politicians.
More was an प्रतिद्वन्दी of the Protestant Reformation, in particular of Martin Luther and William Tyndale.
However, since 1980, he is also commemorated by the Church of इंग्लैण्ड as a reformation martyr.
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a name he gave to the ideal और imaginary island nation, the political system of which he described in Utopia, published in 1516.
He opposed the King 's separation from the Roman Catholic Church and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England, a title which had been given by पार्लियामेंट through the अधिनियम of सर्वोच्चता of 1534.
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by the First Succession Act, क्युकी the अधिनियम disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
In 1535, he was tried for treason, convicted on perjured गवाही, and beheaded.
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at straws '' to mean `` desperately trying even useless things '', in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation.
intellectuals and statesmen across Europe were stunned by More 's execution.
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than any snow, whose genius was such that England never had and never again will have its like ''.
There was a more controversial side to More 's life, because he advocated the persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the times he जिया in और उसके शहादत in the Roman Catholic cause.
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the person of the greatest virtue this kingdom ever produced '', a भावना साथ जिससे सैमुएल जॉनसन agreed.
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that More was `` the first ग्रेट अंग्रेज जिसको we महसूस कि we know, the most saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the universal man of our cool northern renaissance. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional अक्षर invented by the French science fiction author Jules Verne.
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island ( 1874 ), and makes a cameo रूप in वर्न 's खेल यात्रा through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
Nemo, one of the most famous antiheroes in fiction, is a रहस्यमय फिगर.
The son of an Indian Raja, he is a वैज्ञानिक प्रतिभाशाली who roams the depths of the sea in his submarine, the Nautilus, which was built on a deserted island.
Nemo tries to project a stern, controlled विश्वास, but he is driven by a thirst for vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by पछतावा over the deaths of his crew members and even by the deaths of enemy sailors.
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of Verne 's novels, including films, where he has been portrayed by a क्रमांक of अलग अभिनेताओं.
He has furthermore been adopted by other authors for inclusion in their novels, most notably in Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg.
Listed below are the Major League बेसबॉल टीमों साथ the best season won-lost records in history, as determined by winning percentage (.700 or better ), minimum 120 games played.
Acoustic coupler मॉडेम
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an analog carrier सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल सूचना, and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily and decoded to reproduce the original digital data.
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals, from light emitting diodes to radio.
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the digital data of a personal computer into modulated electrical signals in the voice आवृत्ति range of a telephone channel.
These signals can be transmitted over टेलीफोन लाइनों और demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to recover the digital data.
Modems are generally वर्गीकृत by the amount of data they can send in a given unit of time, usually expressed in bits per second ( bit/s, or bps ), or bytes per second ( B/s ).
Modems can alternatively be classified by their symbol rate, measured in baud.
The baud unit denotes symbols per second, or the number of times per दूसरी the मॉडेम भेजना a new signal.
For example, the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying with two possible frequencies corresponding to two distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ), to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud.
By contrast, the original ITU V.22 मानक, जिससे थी समर्थ to संचारण and receive four distinct symbols ( two bits per symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a new nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence, जिससे थी unanimously स्वीकृत on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas जेफरसन to compose the original draft of the document, which congress would edit to produce the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, अधिक than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the text on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms.
It थी initially प्रकाशित as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence, is displayed at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर was August 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from this असली document.
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly पूछताछ.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज III, and by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence, the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American क्रान्ति.
Since then, it has come to be considered a major statement on इंसान अधिकारों, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the सबसे potent and consequential words in American history. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to which the संयुक्त राज्य should strive.
This view was notably प्रचारित by अब्राहम lincoln, जो माना the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन people throughout the world.
The Economy of Greenland can be characterized as small, mixed and vulnerable.
the उपस्थित अर्थव्यवस्था consists of a बिग पब्लिक सेक्टर और व्यापक विदेशी व्यापार, जिससे रै resulted in an अर्थव्यवस्था साथ अवधि of दमदार विकास, considerable महंगाई, बेरोजगारी समस्याएं और चरम dependence on पूंजी inflow इससे डेनमार्क और उपयोग of बाहर, मुख्यतः डैनिश, skilled मजदूर.
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from the Danish government, which supplies about half the revenues of the home rule सरकारी जो in फेरे employ परिचय 8,000 greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
Unemployment nonetheless remains ऊँची, साथ the rest of the economy dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp and fish.
Hydrogen is a chemical element साथ प्रतीक h और परमाणु number 1.
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ), hydrogen is the lightest element and इसके monatomic रूप ( h1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass.
Non- remnant stars are mainly रचित of हाइड्रोजन in its plasma state.
At standard temperature and pressure, hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2.
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in molecules ऐसे as जल और सशुल्क compounds because hydrogen readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements.
Hydrogen plays a विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण role in acid-base chemistry with many reactions exchanging protons between soluble molecules.
In ionic compounds, it can take a negative charge ( an anion ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड and written as H− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
The latter cation is लिखा as though composed of a bare proton, but in reality, hydrogen cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species.
The most common isotope of hydrogen is protium ( नाम rarely used, symbol 1H ) with a single proton and no neutrons.
As the सरलतम अणु known, the hydrogen atom has been of theoretical use.
For example, as the only neutral atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger equation, the study of the energetics and bonding of the हाइड्रोजन अणु निभाई a कुंजी भूमिका in the development of quantum mechanics.
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the जल्दी 16th century, via the mixing of metals with acids.
In 1766–81, Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete substance, and that it produces जल जब burned, a प्रॉपर्टी जिससे बाद दिया it its name : in Greek, hydrogen means `` water-former ''.
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस, and less often from more energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water.
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site, with the two largest uses होने चट्टान ईंधन प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) और ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market.
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle अनेक धातुओं, complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks.
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller film directed by टोनी स्कॉट, लिखा by Mark Bomback, and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine.
The film, loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888 incident, tells the स्टोरी of a runaway भाड़ा train, and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it.
It was स्कॉट 's final feature film before his death in 2012.
The film was released in the संयुक्त States and Canada on November 12, 2010, and in the United Kingdom on November 24, 2010.
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a `` certified Fresh '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic.
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Sound Editing at the 83rd Academy Awards, but lost to Inception.
In छायाचित्र, bracketing is the general technique of taking several shots of the same subject using different camera settings.
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a single shot, especially when a small variation in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting चित्र.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a सेटिंग on the कैमरा to take several bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots, it is typically, लकिन नहीं always, used for static subjects.
Insulated glazing ( IG ), more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, और increasingly ट्रिपल glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or triple glass window panes separated by an air or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope.
insulated कांच इकाई are manufactured with glass in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications.
Laminated or tempered glass may also be used as part of the निर्माण.
Most units are manufactured with the same thickness of glass used on both panes but खास अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as ध्वनिक क्षीणन or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit.
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU ), indicating the numbering convention used in this article.
Surface # 1 is facing outside, Surface # 2 is the inside surface of the exterior pane, Surface # 3 is the outside surface of the interior pane, and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane.
The window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals are shown in red ( # 7 ), the internal reveal is on the right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ), manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit.
For example, a unit may be ordered साथ a 4 mm फलक on the exterior and a 3 mm pane on the interior.
These variations are allowed for architectural और लागत कारण.
Other combinations can be specified and produced but the निर्माता may reserve the right to limit the term of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether.
For ease of description the surfaces of a दोगुना paned ईकाई are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ), Surface # 2 ( inside of outside pane ), Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside pane ).
Applying the सम्बन्धित nomenclature for triple paned units results in surfaces # 1 through # 6.
The performance of insulating glazing can be परिवर्धित through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing windows with upvc खिड़की frames.
सेलेनियम is a chemical element with symbol Se and atomic number 34.
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic तालिका column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium.
It rarely occurs in its elemental state in nature, or as pure ore compounds.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon '' ) was discovered in 1817 by Jöns याक़ूब berzelius, जो विख्यात the समानता of the new element to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide ores, where it partially replaces the sulfur.
commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the refining of these ores, most often during copper production.
Minerals that are pure selenide or selenate compounds are known, but are rare.
The chief commercial uses for selenium today are in glassmaking and in pigments.
सेलेनियम is a semiconductor and is used in photocells.
Uses in electronics, once important, have been mostly supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices.
Selenium continues to be प्रयुक्त in a few प्रकार of DC power surge protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot.
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, but trace amounts are जरुरी लिये सेल्यूलर function in many organisms, including all animals.
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( जिससे indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ).
It is also found in three deiodinase enzymes, which बदलें one thyroid hormone to another.
Selenium requirements in पौधे differ by प्रजाति, साथ कुछ plants requiring relatively large amounts, and others apparently requiring none.
The United States presidential election of 2008 थी the 56th quadrennial presidential election.
It was held on Tuesday, November 4, 2008.
Democrat Barack Obama, then the junior सीनेटर इससे इलिनोइस, पराजित Republican John McCain, the senior Senator from Arizona.
As the campaign progressed, the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican President George W. Bush had become increasingly unpopular, और the major-party candidates ran on a platform of change and reform.
घरेलू नीति और the अर्थव्यवस्था आखिरकार उभरा as the प्रमुख विषयवस्तु in the पिछला few महीने of the चुनाव अभियान बाद the onset of the worst मंदी चूंकि the 1930s.
Obama would go on to win a decisive विजय over McCain in both the electoral and popular vote.
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in अमरीकी इतिहास, और जीती the लोकप्रिय and electoral vote by the largest margin in 12 years, as well as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
This was the first U.S. presidential election in which an African American was elected, having also been the first in which an अफ़्रीकी American won the nomination of either major party.
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S. Senators, only the third समय ( बाद 1920 and 1960 ) that any sitting U.S. Senator was elected president, and only the second time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S. Senators.
This was also the पहला चुनाव चूंकि 1952 in which neither of the major parties ' nominees was the incumbent President or Vice President.
the sovereign प्रिंस or Princess of Monaco is the reigning monarch and head of state of the Principality of Monaco.
All princes or princesses have officially लिया the name of the House of Grimaldi, but have belonged to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon, Polignac ) in male line.
The reigning Prince is Albert II.
Visualization of fragmentation और तब of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems, defragmentation is a process that reduces the राशि of fragmentation.
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass storage device used to store फाइलें into the smallest क्रमांक of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
It also कोशिशें to बनाएँ larger regions of free space using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep smaller files भीतर a सिंगल निर्देशिका साथ, as वे are often accessed in sequence.
Defragmentation is लाभदायक और प्रासंगिक to file systems on electromechanical disk drives.
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower, compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments.
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a part of a service अनुबंध जहाँ a सेवा is formally defined.
In अभ्यास, the पद sla is sometimes used to refer to the contracted delivery time ( of the service or performance ).
As an example, internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements within the terms of their contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of सेवा being sold in plain language terms.
In this case the sla होगा typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between failures ( MTBF ), mean time to repair or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details.
Union Station is a former shopping mall in Union City, Georgia, in southwest metro Atlanta सटा to अंतरराज्यीय 85.
After new स्वामित्व और renovations in 2006, the name was changed from Shannon Southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
A previous नवीकरण थी किया in the late 1990s.
The mall रै महरूम बंद चूंकि November 2010.
This map shows the contiguous United States and, in insets at the lower left, the two states that are not contiguous.
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the continent of North America कि हैं दक्षिण of Canada and north of Mexico, plus the District of Columbia.
The term excludes the states of Alaska and Hawaii, and all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions, such as Puerto Rico.
Together, the 48 contiguous राज्य और d.C. occupy a combined area of, which is 1.58 % of the total surface area of the Earth.
Of this, is land, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
Officially, is water area, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area.
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the nation 's population, and a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole.
`` क्यों '' is the title of a song recorded by American country band Rascal Flatts.
It is the third single from उनके छठे स्टुडियो एल्बम, अजेय.
It was released to radio stations on September 29, 2009 and debuted at # 44 on the U.S. Billboard US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10, 2009.
It was written by Rob mathes और एलन Shamblin.
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness, medical need and efficiency of health care services procedures and facilities according to established criteria or दिशानिर्देश और अंतर्गत the प्रावधानों of an लागू health benefits plan.
Typically it includes new activities or decisions based upon the विश्लेषण of a मामला.
Utilization management describes proactive procedures, including निर्वहन नियोजन, संयुक्त planning, pre-certification and clinical case appeals.
It also covers proactive processes, such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews, as well as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or patient.
As pre-certification and concurrent review of cases grew, utilization management spun out of utilization review.
While नहीं synonymous, health care professionals tend to use the terms as interchangeable.
The difference is utilization management is and intends to मैनेज स्वास्थ्य care cases efficiently and cost effectively before and during health care administration.
Utilization review is more considering whether health care was appropriately applied after it was administered.
There are four basic techniques in utilization management:
माँग Management
utilization Review
Case प्रबन्धन
Disease प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by S. E. Hinton, पहला published in 1967 by Viking Press.
Hinton was 15 जब she started writing the novel, but did most of the work when she was sixteen and a junior in high school.
Hinton was 18 when the book थी published.
The book follows two rival groups, the greasers और the socs ( सुनाया by the लेखक as, छोटी for Socials ), who are divided by their socioeconomic status.
the किताब takes प्लेस in तुलसा, Oklahoma, in 1965, but it is never stated in the book.
A film adaptation was produced in 1983, and a little-known short-lived television series appeared in 1990, picking up where the movie left off.
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two घरों of the संयुक्त States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is frequently referred to as the हाउस.
The other house is the सीनेट.
The composition and powers of the House are स्थापित in आलेख एक of the United States Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, और to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. राज्य is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative.
The most populous राज्य, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, currently has 53 representatives.
The total number of voting representatives is फिक्स्ड by विधि at 435.
Each representative serves for a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि, जो presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the दक्षिण wing of the United States Capitol.
A supply कड़ी is दरअसल a complex and dynamic supply and demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of organizations, people, activities, information, and resources involved in moving a उत्पाद or सेवा इससे प्रदायक to customer.
Supply chain activities transform natural resources, raw materials, और components into a finished product that is delivered to the end customer.
In sophisticated supply chain systems, प्रयुक्त उत्पाद may re-enter the सप्लाई कड़ी at any point where residual value is recyclable.
सप्लाई जंजीरों link value chains.
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded by Jimi Hendrix in 1967, released as the second single by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in दोनो the संयुक्त Kingdom and the United States.
It later appeared on the American version of the band 's 1967 album Are You अनुभवी.
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic drug songs of the sixties ''.
`` Purple Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic techniques would be emulated by many metal guitarists.
A close up picture of a गैंडा skin.
Skin is the नरम outer covering of vertebrates.
Other animal coverings such as the सन्धिपाद बहि have different developmental origin, structure and chemical composition.
The क्रियाशील cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis, skin ).
In mammals, the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary system made up of multiple layers of ectodermal tissue, and guards the underlying muscles, bones, ligaments and internal organs.
Skin of a अलग nature exists in amphibians, reptiles, and birds.
All mammals have some hair on their skin, even marine स्तनधारियों जिससे appear to be hairless.
The स्किन अंतरफलक with the environment and is the first line of defense from external factors.
For example, the स्किन plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss.
Its other functions are insulation, temperature regulation, sensation, and the production of vitamin D folates.
Severely damaged skin may heal by forming scar tissue.
This is sometimes discoloured and depigmented.
The thickness of skin also varies from location to स्थान on an organism.
In humans for example, the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids is the thinnest स्किन in the body at 0.5 mm thick, and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles.
The skin on the हथेलियां और the soles of the feet is 4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body.
Fur is dense बाल.
Primarily, fur augments the insulation the skin provides but can also serve as a secondary यौन characteristic or as camouflage.
On some animals, the skin is very मुश्किल और मोटा, and can be processed to create leather.
Reptiles and fish have hard सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on उनके skin for protection, and birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to ड्योढ़ी of रसायन and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
For example, a frog बैठे in an anesthetic solution would be sedated quickly, as the chemical diffuses through its skin.
Thomas स्कॉट
The Rev. Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally known for his best-selling work A Commentary On The Whole Bible and the फ़ोर्स of सच्चाई, और as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society.
Daniel radcliffe, who portrays Harry Potter, has been the icon of the film series since the release of the first film in 2001.
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom और आयरलैंड have voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have played हैरी कुम्हार, रॉन वीज़्ली और Hermione Granger in all the films.
When they were cast तभी Radcliffe had previously acted in a film.
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter, Jim Broadbent, John Cleese, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Ralph fiennes, माइकल gambon, ब्रेंडन gleeson, रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ, Richard Harris, John Hurt, Jason Isaacs, Miriam Margolyes, Helen McCrory, Gary Oldman, Alan Rickman, Fiona Shaw, Maggie Smith, Timothy Spall, Imelda Staunton, David Thewlis, Emma Thompson, and Julie Walters, among others.
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same अक्षर in सब आठ films of the franchise.
Some well-known British actors who have नहीं appeared in the series, are asked in jest why they have not been cast.
When David Yates was directing the fifth film, Bill Nighy, who had previously collaborated साथ येट्स on तीन of his television projects, said that he joked with Yates that maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter.
`` But nobody called '', nighy added.
But in 2009, Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in Deathly Hallows.
Nighy said, `` I am no longer the only English actor not to be in Harry कुम्हार और i am very pleased. ''
Jude विधि रै quipped, `` Nobody 's asked me.
I was a bit too old लिये Harry ''.
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with प्रसिद्ध names to the श्रेणी ' कनेक्शन to `` प्रत्येक notable British actor, '' Jim Broadbent, who plays Slughorn said, `` Well, not every actor gets invited.
I know some who are still waiting. ''
With the एक्सेप्शन of क्रिस कोलंबस, प्रत्येक निदेशक रै था a कैमियो रूप in उसके संबंधित फिल्मी : अलफोंसो cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती during a scene at The Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix.
Producer David heyman भी makes a cameo appearance as a wizard featured within a magical moving portrait in the third film, Prisoner of Azkaban.
J. K. Rowling gave a speech दौरान the संसार प्रीमियर of the final film in the series— Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the talented actors and actresses who have appeared in सब the हैरी कुम्हार movies.
रोलिंग भी घोषित कि वहीँ हैं सात हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल सदस्यों, जो वो refers to as `` the बिग सात '', वे हैं डेनियल radcliffe, रुपर्ट grint, एम्मा वाटसन, tom felton, मैथ्यू लुईस, evanna लिंच और bonnie राइट.
The list below is sorted by फिल्मी and character, as some characters have been portrayed by multiple actors.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or actress lent only his or her voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the actor or actress portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when the अक्षर थी young.
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in any new footage for the film ; footage from an earlier फिल्मी or films थी प्रयुक्त.
A light grey cell ( such as the एक in the `` Charity Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation.
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual सिद्धान्त, ' आधारित on the स्वीकृत literature ) outlining a course of action for recovery from, compulsion, or other behavioral problems.
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism, the Twelve Steps were first published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : the स्टोरी of कैसा अधिक than एक सौ मेन have बरामद इससे alcoholism in 1939.
the method was then adapted and became the foundation of other twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the American Psychological संघ, the process involves the following:
admitting that one can नहीं कंट्रोल एक 's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher power that can give strength ;
examining past errors with the help of a sponsor ( अनुभवी member ) ;
बनाना amends for these errors ;
learning to live a new life with a new code of behavior ;
helping अन्य who suffer from the same addictions or compulsions.
Witness impeachment, in the विधि of प्रमाण of the United States, is the process of calling into question the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial.
The Federal Rules of प्रमाण contain the rules governing impeachment in federal courts.
Party leaders and whips of the United States House of Representatives are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by रहस्य बैलट और हैं भी known as floor leaders.
The U.S. House of Representatives does not officially use the term `` Minority Leader '' हालांकि the मीडिया अक्सर do.
The House instead uses the terms `` Republican Leader '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on जिससे पार्टी holds a अल्पसंख्यक of seats.
The current House Majority Leader is Republican Eric Cantor, while the current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
The current House Majority Whip is Republican केविन मैकार्थी, जबकि the वर्तमान House Minority Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the German Army opened the Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium, then gaining military control of important industrial regions in फ़्रांस.
The tide of the advance was dramatically turned with the Battle of the Marne.
Following the race to the sea, both sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches, stretching इससे the उत्तर समुद्र to the Swiss frontier with France.
इस लकीर remained essentially अपरिवर्तित लिये सबसे of the युद्ध.
Between 1915 and 1917 there were several प्रमुख offensives along this front.
The हमले employed massive artillery bombardments and massed infantry advances.
However, a combination of entrenchments, machine gun nests, barbed wire, and artillery repeatedly inflicted severe हताहत on the हमलावर और counterattacking defenders.
As a result, no significant advances were बना.
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead, the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million casualties, and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties.
In an effort to break the deadlock, this front saw the introduction of new military technology, सहित ज़हर gas, aircraft and tanks.
But it was only after the adoption of improved tactics that कुछ उपाधि of गतिशीलता was restored.
The German Spring Offensive of 1918 was made संभावित by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front.
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the German armies advanced nearly to the west, जिससे चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either पक्ष since 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this front, this theater would prove decisive.
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat was अपरिहार्य, and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice.
The terms of सलाम यहूद सहमत upon with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.
The following is a सूची of पुनरावर्ती और minor characters in the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody.
These characters were regularly rotated, often disappearing लिये long periods during the series.
The following सूची of वर्ण has been sorted alphabetically, by first name.
Some of the characters had no last name and most were commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to be the most logical method.
In the case of Chef Paolo, who had no ज्ञात पहला नाम, they have been listed by title.
The First Lady of the United States ( flotus ) is the होस्टेस of the White House.
Because this position is traditionally filled by the wife of the President of the United States, the शीर्षक is सबसे प्रायः लागू to the wife of a sitting president.
The current First Lady is मिशेल Obama.
After her husband बराक Obama was re-elected on November 6, 2012, she is scheduled to serve until January 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a medical कंडीशन as a परिणाम of कठोर infection and sepsis, though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site.
It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple अंग विफलता ) और मौत.
Its most common victims are children, immunocompromised individuals, and the elderly, as their immune systems can not deal साथ the संक्रमण as effectively as those of healthy adults.
Frequently, patients suffering from septic शॉक are cared for in intensive care units.
The mortality rate from septic शॉक is approximately 25–50 %.
Kevin Brereton ( born February 20, 1972 ), better known by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer.
His given name may also be cited as Kheaven, a spelling he later adopted.
The alias `` k-os '', spelled with a lower case `` k '', was intended to be less aggressive than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers whose names were all upper case, such as KRS-One.
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self, '' although in a later interview he said कि it originally stood लिये `` केविन 's Original Sound. '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres, including rap, funk, rock, and reggae.
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing criticism of mainstream hip hop culture 's obsession with money, fame and glorification of हिंसा.
A musician as well as a producer, k-os has written and produced nearly every part of सब चार of उसके albums.
k-os usually performs with a live band, कुछ कि is uncommon in the hip hop genre.
He sometimes plays गिटार और कुंजीपटल दोनो during live performances and in the studio.
k-os received his first musical exposure with the single `` musical essence '', released in 1993.
After the release of his second single `` Rise Like the Sun '' in 1996, he withdrew from the industry क्युकी he थी असंतुष्ट with his musical style.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released his debut album Exit in 2002.
The album received positive reviews but sold relatively few copies.
He released his second album Joyful विद्रोह in 2004, जिससे received platinum status in Canada.
a तीसरा एल्बम,, was released in 2006 and also went platinum.
His चौथी album, Yes !
, थी released in 2009.
His fifth album BLack on BLonde was released in 2013.
The official 2007 संस्करण of the UCC.
Even the confidential rough drafts of the ucc यहूद saved और प्रकाशित as a 10-volume set.
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ), first published in 1952, is one of a number of uniform acts that have been promulgated in conjunction साथ प्रयत्न to harmonize the विधि of बिक्री और अन्य वाणिज्यिक ट्रांजेक्शन in all 50 states within the United States of America.
multi-pitch चढ़ाई is the ascent of चढ़ाई रूट साथ एक or अधिक stops at a belay स्टेशन.
Each section of actual climbing between stops at the belay stations is called a pitch.
The leader ascends the pitch, रखकर गियर और stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay station.
The reason for the stops can be determined by चुनाव, सम्मेलन or necessity.
For example:
the रस्सी is too छोटी to do the संपूर्ण रूट in एक पिच ( necessity ).
The leader has run out of protective gear ( necessity ).
There is a convenient protectable ledge, or fixed bolts placed by पिछला climbers, at the location for a belay station ( convention ).
The leader chooses to बाकी or exchange leads before the next section of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber while collecting the protective gear from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent.
At the belay station, the protective gear is collected, possibly exchanged to a new leader, and the leader of the अगला पिच ascends the route.
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense and a 4-3 गठन on defense
In American football, प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the field at one time.
The विशिष्ट role that a player takes on the field is called their position.
Under the modern rules of American football, teams are अनुमत unlimited subsititutions, that is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various specific स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing विधान लिये the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying योग्यता लिये a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride station in Wayne, New Jersey along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New York नगर और विभिन्न अन्य अंक in the क्षेत्रफल as खूब as montclair-boonton लकीर ट्रैन सेवा to नई यॉर्क, Hoboken, and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University.
It is located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23 on West Belt Road, near the इंटरचेंज जहाँ रूट 23, अंतरराज्यीय 80, और u.S. रूट 46 meet, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
The station opened in जनवरी 2008 and has 1,000 parking spaces.
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail और बस स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor station, '' that will help relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange, where the three major highways meet.
In addition, the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride, a bus depot on Route 23 North that has since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride, and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had सीमित पार्किंग जबकि njt was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook.
The Wayne Township bus garage is located on the opposite पक्ष of रूट 23.
There has been a proposal to build a parking deck with another thousand spots and develop the land at the station.
In addition to Montclair-Boonton trains, the Transit Center is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to Newark Penn स्टेशन and Butler
194 to Port प्राधिकार Bus Terminal and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल और विलियम paterson विश्वविद्यालयों
324 to Port Authority and वेन रूट 23
748 to willowbrook मॉल and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol, ampersat, apetail or commercial at in English—and less commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of अन्य terms.
The fact that there is no single word in English for the symbol has prompted some writers to उपयोग the फ्रेंच arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand, ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency.
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it थी नहीं शामिल on the कुंजीपटल of the earliest commercially successful typewriters, but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is अभी universally included on computer keyboards.
In recent years, its meaning has grown to include the sense of being `` स्तिथ at, '' `` और, '' or `` directed at '', especially in email addresses and social media, particularly Twitter.
The mark is एनकोडेड at.
The Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger.
Originally published for adults, it has since become popular with adolescent readers for its विषयवस्तु of teenage angst और alienation.
it रै महरूम अनूदित into almost all of the world 's major languages.
Around 250,000 copies are sold each year with total sales of अधिक than 65 million books.
The novel 's protagonist and antihero, होल्डन Caulfield, has become an icon for teenage rebellion.
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923, and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.
It has been अक्सर challenged in the United States and other countries for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It also deals with complex issues of identity, belonging, कनेक्शन, and alienation.
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several मांसपेशियां.
Examples range from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical स्थिति.
in other positions, other actions may be performed.
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality television series created by Jonathan Murray for the ऑक्सीजन टेलीविज़न station.
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous महिलाओं साथ अलग पृष्ठभूमि and personalities, who have a number of psychological and behavioral problems.
They are introduced to the दिखाएँ बंद their pernicious behavior and accomplish specific goals.
The cast, deemed `` bad girls '', enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a fine mansion for three months, during which they must obey specified rules.
Their lives inside – and outside – of the हाउस हैं chronicled and recorded by the production team.
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in five countries ( United States, Netherlands, Australia, हंगेरियाई, और स्वीडन ).
It has received negative reviews from critics, who believe the show promotes violence by adolescent दर्शक.
Furthermore, several cast members made controversial remarks which outraged many viewers.
The स्वरूप of the दिखाएँ has changed from early seasons.
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule, she is evicted from the show and, if it is early in the season, replaced by a नई `` ख़राब लड़की ''.
There have been nine पूरा seasons of The Bad Girls Club, with the tenth season currently airing.
The fourth season had the highest ratings in the show 's history, becoming its `` breakthrough season ''.
There have महरूम तीन spin-offs of The Bad Girls Club.
One of them, Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too, where past cast सदस्यों तलाश सच्चा love, has gained high ratings.
Oxygen has also released a मोबाईल खेल, comic strip and merchandise to promote the show.
Of the 92 प्रतियोगी, केरी harvick ( of ऋतु one ) was a successful country singer before the show.
Tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later hosted ऑक्सीजन 's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons of Love Games : ख़राब लड़कियों Need Love Too.
Thomas, जो रै महरूम उतावले the `` godmother '' to all contestants, has her own television documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married.
As of ऋतु 8 वो 's been the host of the reunion specials.
The Iowa Senate is the upper house of the Iowa General Assembly.
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate, representing 50 single-member districts across the राज्य साथ populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency,.
Each सीनेट ज़िला is composed of two House districts.
The सीनेट meets at the Iowa State Capitol in Des Moines.
Unlike the lower house, the Iowa House of Representatives, सीनेटरों serve four-year terms, with half of the Senate staggered for re-election every two years.
वहीँ are no term limits for the Senate.
Mechanical repair
Maintenance, repair, and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance, repair, and overhaul involves fixing कोई sort of mechanical, plumbing or electrical device should it become out of order or broken ( known as repair, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in working order ( known as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be defined as, `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an item in or to a state in which it can perform इसके जरूरी function.
The actions include the combination of all technical and corresponding administrative, managerial, and पर्यवेक्षण क्रियाएँ. ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer, i.e. a service is being offered, or whether the product is bought by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the पूर्व मामला it may be a backshop operation within a larger organisation or smaller operation.
The former of these represents a closed लूप सप्लाई chain and usually has the scope of maintenance, repair or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an open loop supply chain and is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture.
The main characteristic of the closed लूप प्रणाली is कि the माँग लिये a उत्पाद is matched with the supply of a used product.
neglecting एसेट write-offs और असाधारण क्रियाएँ the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of the उत्पाद between the ग्राहक और the सेवा प्रदाता remains constant.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip लुई ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Diana, Princess of Wales, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was शिक्षित at चार schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, तंजानिया, और कीनिया where he has lived and holidayed several times.
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at universities in कीनिया और Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the ब्लूज़ और रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time पायलट साथ the ढूंढें और बचाव Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to raf घाटी on no. 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 April 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge, अर्ल of strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), better known by his stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em, or simply Soulja Boy, is an अमरीकी rapper, रिकार्ड निर्माता, कर्ता, और उद्योगों.
In September 2007, उसके सिंगल `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100.
the सिंगल थी initially self-published on the internet, and it later became a number-one hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007.
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the Forbes list of hip-hop नकदी किंग्स of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year.
Way has currently released three studio albums and one independent album : his debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) थी certified प्लेटिनम by the RIAA.
However, his next two albums, iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) किया नहीं मैच the वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू, the latter तभी selling 100,000 नक़ल, despite the कामयाबी of several singles across both albums, such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records which meant a सीमित राशि of records were made available to the public.
As of 2011, रास्ता रै पुष्टि he is working on his fourth studio album, entitled USA DRE, which will be released in 2013.
The electron transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
the nadh और succinate उत्पन्न in the साइट्रिक एसिड साईकिल हैं oxidized, providing उर्जा to शक्ति एटीपी synthase.
photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन transport chain of the thylakoid membrane.
An इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण कड़ी ( इत्यादि ) युगल electron transfer between an electron donor ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane.
The resulting electrochemical प्रोटॉन अनुपात is used to generate chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ).
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox प्रतिक्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ).
In chloroplasts, light drives the conversion of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH with ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions आरपार chloroplast membranes.
In mitochondria, it is the conversion of oxygen to water, NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate that are required to generate the proton gradient.
इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण chains are major sites of premature electron leakage to oxygen, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, Ryzolt, Ultracet, Ultram in the USA, Ralivia, zytram xl durella { cr-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain.
The drug has a wide range of applications, including उपचार of आमवातीय गठिया, बेचैन legs syndrome, motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia.
It थी शुभारम्भ and marketed as Tramal by the German pharmaceutical company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
Tramadol is metabolized to o-desmethyltramadol, a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist.
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished from अन्य अधिक potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an American former stockbroker, investment advisor, financier, and white collar criminal.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market, and the admitted operator of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history.
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in 1960, and was its chairman until his arrest on December 11, 2008.
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street, which bypassed `` specialist '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter from retail brokers.
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance Officer ; Peter has since been sentenced to 10 years in prison.
Peter 's daughter Shana madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney, and his sons Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ).
On December 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told authorities कि उनके पिता था confessed to them that the asset management unit of his firm was a massive Ponzi scheme, and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie. ''
The following day, FBI agents गिरफ्तार madoff and charged him with one count of securities fraud.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted investigations into Madoff 's business practices, but did not ख़ोज the विशाल धोखाधड़ी.
In March 2009, madoff pleaded अपराधी to 11 संघीय felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management business into a massive Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of investors of billions of dollars.
Madoff said he began the Ponzi scheme in the early 1990s.
However, संघीय जांचकर्ताओं मानना the धोखाधड़ी began as early as the 1970s, and those charged with recovering the missing money believe the investment operation may never have been legitimate.
The amount missing इससे क्लाएंट खाते, सहित fabricated gains, was almost $ 65 billion.
The court-appointed trustee estimated वास्तविक losses to investors of $ 18 billion.
On June 29, 2009, he was sentenced to 150 years in थाना, the अधिकतम allowed.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North अमेरिका, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is celebrated on the first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an एंटिटी ऐसे as an arbitrator or ट्रिब्यूनल फलक, generally of a पब्लिक प्रशासनिक agency, which has powers and procedures resembling those of a court of law or judge, and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action.
Such actions are able to उपाय a हालात or impose legal penalties, and may affect the legal rights, duties or privileges of specific parties.
Monument of Tycho Brahe and योहानेस Kepler in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen Brahe, was a डैनिश nobleman ज्ञात लिये उसके सटीक and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations.
He was born in Scania, then भाग of Denmark, now part of modern-day Sweden.
tycho थी खूब ज्ञात in उसके आजीवन as an astronomer और कीमियागर.
In his De nova stella ( On the new star ) of 1573, he refuted the Aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars, '' ( stellae novae, now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572, lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena, and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless धूमकेतुओं as previously believed, लकिन यहूद ऊपर the माहौल and moon.
Using similar measurements he showed that comets यहूद भी not atmospheric phenomena, as previously thought, and must pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic system into his own model of the universe, the Tychonic system.
Furthermore, he was the last of the major naked eye astronomers, working without telescopes for his observations.
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg, an early research institute, where he built large astronomical यंत्र और took अनेक careful measurements, and later Stjerneborg, underground, when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady.
On the island ( on which he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर और बर्ताव toward the residents ) he founded manufactories such as paper-making to provide material for printing his results.
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597, he was invited by the Bohemian king and Holy Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the official imperial astronomer.
He built the new वेधशाला at Benátky nad Jizerou.
Here, from 1600 until his death in 1601, he was assisted by योहानेस कॅप्लर जो बाद used Tycho 's astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion.
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul, South Korea, which was separated from Yeongdeungpo District on अप्रैल 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern part of the city, where besides Yangcheon District and Geumcheon District Guro District has an important position as a हस्तांतरण कड़ी जिससे contains railroads, जमीन रूट इससे the rest of Seoul to the south of the country.
The Gyeongbu and Gyeongin railway lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon.
In addition, Seoul Metropolitan Subway lines 1, 2, and 7, and major highways intersect in guro ज़िला.
The name guro originates इससे the legend that nine ( ) old men ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district.
A digital industrial complex is located in guro ज़िला.
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex, which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile manufacturing, dressmaking और अन्य labour-intensive उद्योग in 1967, has been rapidly changed into an IT industrial complex.
This complex played a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development era, referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the हान नदी ``, and also contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s.
twenty-one प्रतिशत of the कुल क्षेत्रफल of guro ज़िला is a प्रतिबंधित मण्डल to be प्रयुक्त as a greenbelt साथ the तभी arboretum in सियोल.
The zone is बदलना into a जीवंत ज़िला as large labour-intensive factories are moving from the area and the council is developing what it terms its four zones.
An `` e-government `` system based on this hosted the international e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007, with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries.
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux, France ), Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill, US ), Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok, Thailand ), Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo, Sri Lanka ), and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford, uk ) और dr ari-veiko anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The Guro घोषणा, adopted during the forum, aims to set up a portal site for e-government development and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities.
इस अभ्यास रै महरूम recognised लिये providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण कदम in the विकास of e-democracy.
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among शहरों, to provide i.t. उद्यमों स्तिथ in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market, to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy.
The international e-participation forum on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a type of पकौड़ी commonly मिला in a number of Chinese cuisines.
Many people were involved in the invention of radio as we now know it.
Several संभावित विधि of बेतार संचार were considered, including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission through the ground, however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves.
After early speculation on the subject, experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and continued with the work of andré-marie एम्पीयर, जोसेफ हेनरी, और माइकल Faraday.
These investigations culminated in the complete theory of electromagnetism developed by जेम्स Clerk Maxwell.
This theory described the theoretical basis of the propagation of electromagnetic waves.
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented with बेतार communication, some intentionally using Maxwell 's theory some not.
It is माना संभावित कि the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was performed by David Edward Hughes around 1880, although this was considered to be induction at the time.
The first systematic and unequivocal हस्तांतरण of em waves was performed by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz and described in papers published in 1887 and 1890.
Hertz famously considered these results as being of छोटी practical value.
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components और सिद्धान्त शामिल साथ the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves.
Others, notably guglielmo Marconi, were concerned with practical improvements and the commercial application of radio to wireless telegraphy.
बाद on रेगिनाल्ड A. Fessenden became the first to send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves.
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C, which is required for the संश्लेषण of collagen in humans.
The chemical name for vitamin C, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin name of scurvy, scorbutus, जिससे भी provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ).
Scurvy often presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy, followed by formation of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Spots are most abundant on the thighs and legs, and a person with the ailment looks पाले, feels उदास, और is partially immobilized.
As scurvy advances, there can be खोलें, suppurating wounds, loss of teeth, jaundice, fever, neuropathy and death.
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors, pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats और सूखी दाने ) और by सैनिको similarly वंचित of these foods for extended periods.
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 bc ), और हर्बल cures for scurvy have been known in many native cultures since prehistory.
Scurvy was one of the limiting factors of marine travel, often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century, continuing to खेल a significant role through World War I in the 20th century.
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional कमियां, जबतक the अलगाव of विटामिन c और सीधा प्रमाण of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, often on little or no experimental data.
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin c as a पृथक अवधारणा, an अक्षमता to reliably link different foods ( notably present in fresh citrus, watercress, and organ meat ) to scurvy.
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to air and तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल salts such as those of iron, thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time.
Treatment by fresh food, particularly citrus fruit, was periodically implemented, as it had been since antiquity.
However until the 1930s, treatment was inconsistent, with many ineffective treatments प्रयुक्त into the 20th सदी.
It was a स्कॉटिश सर्जन in the royal नेवी, जेम्स lind जो first proved it could be treated with citrus fruit in experiments he described in his 1753 book, A Treatise of the Scurvy, though his advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades.
In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow 's बीमारी, नामित बाद सर थामस barlow, a British physician who described it.
However, Barlow 's बीमारी may also refer to mitral valve prolapse.
Other eponyms लिये स्कर्वी शामिल Moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's disease.
Scurvy does not occur in most animals क्युकी they can synthesize their own vitamin C.
However, humans and other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - and tarsiers ), guinea pigs, most or all bats, and some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet.
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues, with particularly high concentrations occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), tomatoes, potatoes, cabbages, and green peppers.
Iron is a chemical तत्व with the symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26.
It is a मेटल in the first transition series.
It is the most common element ( by mass ) forming the planet Earth as a whole, forming much of Earth 's बाहरी और भीतरी core.
It is the fourth most common element in the धरती 's crust.
Iron 's very common presence in रॉकी ग्रह जैसे Earth is due to its abundant production as a result of fusion in high-mass stars, where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic.
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be उत्पादित पहले पतन of a supernova leads to the explosive events that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
Like other group 8 तत्व, आयरन exists in a wide range of oxidation states, −2 to +6, although +2 and +3 are the most common.
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen environments, but is reactive to oxygen and water.
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in सामान्य एयर to दे hydrated iron oxides, commonly known as rust.
Unlike many other metals which form passivating oxide layers, iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal, and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for संक्षारण.
Iron metal has been प्रयुक्त since ancient times, though copper alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, were used first in history.
Pure iron is soft ( softer than aluminium ), but is unobtainable by smelting.
The material is significantly hardened और strengthened by impurities from the smelting process, such as carbon.
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % and 2.1 % ) produces स्टील, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces, where ore is reduced by coke to pig iron, जिससे रै a high carbon content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the सही proportion to make steel.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the most common metals in industrial use, due to their great range of desirable properties and the abundance of iron.
Iron chemical compounds, which include ferrous and ferric compounds, have many uses.
Iron oxide mixed साथ aluminium powder can be ignited to create a thermite reaction, used in welding and purifying ores.
It फ़ॉर्म शब्दकोष compounds with the halogens and the chalcogens.
Among its organometallic यौगिकों is ferrocene, the first sandwich compound discovered.
Iron plays an important role in biology, forming complexes with molecular ऑक्सीजन in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is also the मेटल प्रयुक्त at the active site of many important redox enzymes dealing with cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals.
The Blue Cross ब्लू शील्ड संघ ( BCBSA ) is a federation of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States.
Combined, they directly or indirectly provide health insurance to over 99 million Americans.
The history of Blue Cross तिथियाँ वापस to 1929, जबकि the history of Blue Shield dates to 1939.
The Blue Cross Association dates back to 1960, जबकि इसके ब्लू शील्ड बंटवारा was created in 1948.
The two organizations merged in 1982, forming the current association.
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, Singaporean, Hong Kong, South African and Jamaican English ; as a crisp in British English and Hiberno-English, and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
Potato चिप्स हैं commonly परोसा as an appetizer, side dish, or snack.
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings and ingredients including seasonings, herbs, spices, cheeses, and artificial additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may also refer to many different types of savory snack products sold in the United Kingdom and Ireland, some made from potato, but may also be बना इससे मक्का, tapioca or अन्य cereals.
An उदाहरण of ये kinds of savory snacks is Monster Munch.
Potato chips are a predominant part of the स्नैक खाना मार्केट in English-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations.
The global potato chip market generated कुल revenues of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
This accounted for 35.5 % of the total savory snacks market in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, Sr. ( April 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852 ) was a वकील, राजनेता और skilled orator who represented Kentucky in both the Senate and in the House of Representatives.
He served three अलग terms as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829.
He lost his campaigns for president in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
Clay was a dominant फिगर in both the First and Second Party systems.
As a leading war hawk in 1812, he favored war with ब्रिटेन और निभाई a significant role in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812.
In 1824 he भागा लिये president and lost, but threw his electoral votes to John Quincy Adams, who made him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate of the whig पार्टी, जिससे he founded and usually dominated.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System, fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster industry in the United States, the उपयोग of संघीय funding to निर्माण और maintain अवसंरचना, and a strong national bank.
He opposed the annexation of Texas, fearing it होता इंजेक्ट the गुलामी issue into politics.
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the `` Manifest Destiny `` policy of Democrats, जिससे लागत उसे मत in the close 1844 election.
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator, '' Clay brokered important compromises दौरान the nullification Crisis and on the slavery issue.
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio, '' along with his colleagues Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun, he was instrumental in formulating the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
He was viewed as the प्राथमिक प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी interests in this group, and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A plantation owner, Clay आयोजित स्लेव दौरान उसके lifetime but freed them in his Will.
Abraham Lincoln, the Whig leader in Illinois, was a great admirer of Clay, saying he was `` my ideal of a great man. ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported Clay 's economic programs.
In 1957, a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of the five greatest U.S. Senators, साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर, John C. Calhoun, Robert La Follette, and Robert Taft.
BJ 's Wholesale Club, Inc., commonly referred to simply as BJ 's, is a membership-only warehouse club chain operating on the United States East coast, as खूब as in the state of Ohio.
The company is ranked # 232 on Fortune magazine 's 2010 listing of America 's 500 largest public corporations.
The Wizard of Oz, known during his शासनकाल as the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली oz, is the epithet of ऑस्कर zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional character in the Land of Oz, created by American author L. Frank Baum.
The character was further popularized by the classic 1939 फिल्म, wherein his full name is not mentioned.
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March 8, 1990 ) is an American singer, songwriter, नर्तकी and actress.
She first appeared on national television in 2003 as a contestant on the अमरीकी आइडल spin-off, American Juniors.
In 2009, DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records department Sodapop, releasing her debut album Exposed in July of the same year.
The पहला सिंगल, `` अलविदा ``, reached the top 20 in the US and Canada.
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from her untitled sophomore album was released on सितंबर 27, 2012.
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of hawaiʻi at Mānoa in NCAA Division I FBS college football.
The team is coached by Norm Chow.
It was part of the Western Athletic Conference until July 2012, जब the टोली joined the पहाड़ West Conference.
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-aq team to play in a BCS bowl game ; losing to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin pentz gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the अवधारणा एल्बम कया 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe under a tax निर्वासन in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions, including the Grammy Lifetime उपलब्धि Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
स्थान of chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned नगर of pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the distance
abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ), which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी ussr और यूरोपीय.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately शामिल over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed, and long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to उसके husband as he sets off on his journey in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus, the Christmas gift-bringer in North अमरीकी और यूरोपीय क्रिसमस tradition.
She is known for making cookies with the elves and preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus.
Her first name is a mystery, though she has been referred to as Mary, Jessica, Layla, Annette, Heidi, or Martha.
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool for Microsoft Windows originally created by Merijn Bellekom, and later sold to Trend Micro.
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods, rather than relying on a database of known spyware.
It scans a user 's computer quickly, and displays browser hijacking locations, प्रर्दशित कया entries are there.
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking, as uninformed उपयोग of इसके हटाना सुविधाएं can cause significant software damage to a computer.
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it सूचियाँ सबसे आम locations where browser hijacking activity can occur.
Browser hijacking can cause malware to be installed on a computer.
On February 16, 2012, Trend Micro released the HijackThis source code as open source and it is अभी उपलब्धियाँ on the sourceforge site.
Saddle Creek Records is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड label based in Omaha, Nebraska.
Started as a college class project on entrepreneurship, the label was founded by माइक mogis और जस्टिन oberst in 1993 ( as lumberjack Records ).
Mogis soon turned over his role in the कम्पनी to Robb Nansel.
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road, a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha, and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist, फिलहाल of उज्जवल आँखें, Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band, Desaparecidos and Monsters of Folk ), Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia, currently of Cursive and The Good Life ), and others.
Collectively, they were ज्ञात unofficially as the `` Creekers ''.
काठी क्रीक पहला appeared in print on a show flyer, offering to `` Spend an evening with Saddle Creek '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD. )
काठी क्रीक became an incorporated entity as a result of a class project on entrepreneurship.
वितरण is संभाला by the वैकल्पिक Distribution Alliance, which is under the Warner Music Group umbrella.
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the फ्लैगशिप लेबल of a style of music called `` The Omaha Sound ``, characterized by a slight country twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, though, with the rise of अधिक इलेक्ट्रॉनिक sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat explained by their history ; a number of the original members of the label attended grade school together.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to Saddle Creek is Team Love, started by Conor Oberst in 2004.
The label opened arms to their पहला bands not based in Omaha in 2001 with releases by Now It 's Overhead and Sorry About Dresden.
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed, including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley, Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers from North Carolina ), Georgie James ( Washington D.C. ), Two Gallants ( San Francisco ), और सबसे recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ).
In 2005, Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek, a वृत्तचित्र detailing the पहला टेन सालो of the record label 's history, was released.
The DVD features extensive interviews with the Saddle Creek bands, archival footage, and rare live प्रदर्शन.
On June 8, 2007, the label opened their own music venue named Slowdown ( after the group slowdown वर्जिनिया ), स्तिथ in शहर ओमाहा, नेब्रास्का.
The following is a list of episodes लिये the टेलीविज़न show Full House.
in कुल, वहीँ यहूद 192 एपीसोड फिल्माया लिये the दिखाएँ over the कोर्स of इसके आठ सीज़न, इससे 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a situation कॉमेडी जिससे क्रॉनिकल्स a widowed father 's struggles of raising his three young daughters and the lives that they have touched.
The patriarch of the family, डैनी ( bob saget ), आमंत्रण उसके brother-in-law जेसी ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ), to help raise his children ( Candace Cameron, Jodie Sweetin, and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ), after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver.
After episodes 88 and 89, Jesse marries Becky ( Lori Loughlin ), and वे move into the attic.
Then, after episodes 104 and 105, Becky and Jesse have twin boys named Nicky और एलेक्स ( डेनियल और Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
The series ends with episode 192, `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '', when मिशेल loses उसके मेमोरी और the परिवार tries to restore it.
Notice of Stamp Act of 1765 in समाचारपत्र
अमरीकी अखबारों reacted to the Stamp Act with anger and predictions of the demise of journalism.
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 जार्ज iii, c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा tax by the British Parliament specifically on the colonies of British America, and it required that many printed materials in the colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.
These printed materials were legal documents, magazines, newspapers और अनेक अन्य प्रकार of paper used throughout the colonies.
Like previous taxes, the स्टैम्प कर था to be सशुल्क in valid British currency, not in colonial paper money.
The purpose of the tax was to help pay for troops stationed in North America after the British victory in the सात Years ' War.
The British government felt that the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of this military उपस्थिति, और चाहिए अदा at तनिक a portion of the expense.
The Stamp Act met great resistance in the colonies.
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament, and therefore had no influence over what taxes were raised, how they were levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists माना it a उल्लंघन of उनके अधिकारों as अंग्रेजो to be taxed बगैर उनके सहमति —consent कि तभी the औपनिवेशिक विधानमंडलों could ग्रान्ट.
औपनिवेशिक assemblies sent petitions and protests.
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City, reflecting the first significant joint colonial response to any British माप, भी petitioned पार्लियामेंट और the King.
Local protest groups, led by colonial merchants and landowners, established connections through पत्राचार कि निर्मित a loose coalition that extended from New England to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of Liberty often turned violent and destructive as the masses became involved.
Very soon all stamp tax distributors were intimidated into resigning their commissions, और the कर थी never effectively collected.
विपक्ष to the Stamp Act was not limited to the colonies.
British merchants और निर्माताओं, जिनकी निर्यात to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic problems exacerbated by the tax, also pressured Parliament.
The Act was repealed on कूच 18, 1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience, but Parliament affirmed its power to legislate for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act.
There followed a series of new taxes and regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a major role in defining the grievances and enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक प्रतिरोध that led to the American Revolution in 1775.
pt-105 underway.
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed तेज़ attack craft used by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships.
`` PT '' is the us hull classification symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo ''.
The PT boat squadrons were nicknamed `` the mosquito बेड़े ''.
The Japanese called them `` Devil नौकाएँ ''.
The original pre– World War I torpedo boats यहूद designed with `` displacement '' hulls.
They displaced up to 300 टन and the top speed was.
the PT boats used in World War II were built using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats.
They were much smaller ( 30–75 टन ) and faster ( 35–40 knots ).
Both types were designed to strike at larger warships with torpedoes, using relatively high speed to get close, and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire.
They यहूद much less expensive than large warships.
PT boats were much faster, smaller, and cheaper than conventional ( विस्थापन hull ) vessels.
During World War II, American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers और numerous other surface craft, ranging from small boats to large supply ships.
PT boats also operated as gunboats against enemy small craft, such as armored barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport.
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary.
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the paschal triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding Easter Sunday, and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is also ज्ञात as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black Friday, or Easter Friday, though the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter week.
Based on the details of the Canonical gospels, the Crucifixion of Jesus was most likely to have been on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33, by two different समूह, और originally as ad 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars and the crescent of the moon.
A third method, using a completely different astronomical approach based on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter 's सन्दर्भ to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ), points to Friday, 3 April AD 33.
the ग्रेट जलाशय is the largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic watersheds in उत्तर अमेरिका.
It is noted for both its arid शर्तें और इसके जलाशय और दायरा topography that varies from the North American low point at Badwater Basin to the highest point of the contiguous United States, less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney.
The region spans several physiographic divisions, biomes / ecoregions, और रेगिस्तान.
Raster may refer to:
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स, आलेखीय techniques using arrays of pixel values
रास्टर graphics editor, a computer program
Raster scan, the pattern of image readout, हस्तांतरण, storage, and reconstruction in television and computer images
Rasterisation, or rasterization, conversion of a vector image to a raster image
Raster image प्रोसेसर, or rip, a घटक of a printing system that performs rasterisation
Raster इन्टरनेट, a computer interrupt signal
Raster to vector, an image conversion प्रक्रम
Raster bar, an effect used in कंप्यूटर demos
Raster-Noton, a record लेबल
Rastrum, a device प्रयुक्त in मध्यकालीन music manuscripts to draw staff lines
Raster Document Object, a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned king in the epic poem named after him, one of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English language.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl हार्बर, हवाई, on the morning of दिसम्बर 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in दो लहरें, launched from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and with the remaining four repaired, छह battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage facilities, as well as the पनडुब्बी piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
एक जापानी sailor was captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the American entry into संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो the प्रशांत और यूरोपीय theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the United States घोषित war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, which had been strong, disappeared.
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to declare war on the U.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south United राज्य highway that runs for in the Mountain - Northern Plains states of the United States.
The southern terminus of the route is at the United states-mexico किनारा in el पासो, टेक्सास, connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45.
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna, उत्तर डकोटा, where the route continues north as Saskatchewan Highway 35.
In both the संयुक्त राज्य और Saskatchewan, Canada the route is known as the CanAm Highway.
Sections of US 85 are considered part of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway.
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व vice-president Richard Nixon, won the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
निक्सन भागा on a अभियान कि promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first समय in बारह सालो.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व Alabama Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school segregation, he carried the गहन South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which नई यॉर्क था the सबसे votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won बगैर carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt परिवार of ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों कि provides सीमित सूचना about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows Task Manager was introduced with खिड़कियाँ NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ nt included the Task List application, which had far fewer features.
The task list थी सक्षम of listing currently running processes and killing them, or creating a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, Restart, Log बंद और स्विच User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running.
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the C : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet.
The Japanese term kanji ( ) लिये the Chinese characters literally means `` Han characters '' and is written using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R Williams ( May 4, 1782 – October 20, 1854 ) was an American soldier, merchant, and politician who is most well known for सेवारत as the पहला महापौर of Detroit, Michigan.
In total, he served as Detroit 's mayor for five अन्य terms.
He also was a brigadier general in the संयुक्त राज्य फौज during the Black Hawk War.
A simple शुष्क magnetic portable compass.
A smartphone that can be used as a compass because of the magnetometer inside.
An iPhone that can be used as a geological कम्पास क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass that was used during संसार War I.
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a frame of reference that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth.
The frame of reference defines the four cardinal directions ( or अंक ) – north, south, east, and west.
इंटरमीडिएट directions are also defined.
Usually, a diagram called a compass rose, which shows the दिशानिर्देश ( with their names usually abbreviated to initials ), is marked on the compass.
When the compass is in use, the rose is aligned with the real directions in the फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ, so, लिये उदाहरण, the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north.
Frequently, in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it, angle markings in degrees हैं दिखाया on the compass.
North corresponds to शून्य डिग्री, and the angles increase clockwise, so east is 90 degrees, south is 180, and west is 270.
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or bearings, which are commonly stated in this notation.
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device लिये भविष्यवाणी as early as the Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ).
The compass was used in Song राजवंश China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, and was used for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117.
The use of a कम्पास is recorded in Western Europe between 1187 and 1202, and in Persia in 1232.
the शुष्क कम्पास was invented in Europe around 1300.
This was supplanted in the early 20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic compass.
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( quechua : tawantinsuyu ) was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America.
The प्रशासनिक, राजनैतिक and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru.
The Inca civilization arose from the हाइलैंड्स of पेरू sometime in the early 13th century.
From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a variety of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain ranges, including, besides Peru, large parts of modern Ecuador, western and south central Bolivia, northwest Argentina, north and central Chile, and southern Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia.
The official language of the empire was Quechua, although hundreds of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken.
The Inca referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be translated as The Four Regions or The चार संयुक्त प्रांतों.
There were many local forms of worship, most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas ``, but the Inca leadership encouraged the worship of Inti —the sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults ऐसे as कि of Pachamama.
The Incas considered उनके किंग, the Sapa Inca, to be the `` child of the sun. ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several essential regulatory भूमिकाएँ in सबसे पशु, including vertebrates and some invertebrates.
They are essential in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स, मेंटेनेंस of acid–base संतुलन, और regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ).
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood, and remove wastes जिससे are diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes ऐसे as यूरिया और अमोनियम, और they are also responsible for the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids.
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the enzyme renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal धमनियों, और नाली into the युग्म renal veins.
Each kidney excretes मूत्र into a ureter, itself a paired structure that empties into the urinary bladder.
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function, while nephrology is the medical specialty चिंतित with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the kidney are diverse, but individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic नैदानिक सुविधाएँ.
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic and nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease, urinary tract infection, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the सबसे आम वयस्क renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, and some other renal conditions can be प्रबंधित साथ हटाना of the गुर्दा, or nephrectomy.
जब renal फलन, measured by glomerular filtration rate, is persistently poor, dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options.
Although they are not severely नुकसानदेह, kidney stones can be painful and a nuisance.
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound उपचार to ब्रेक up the पत्थरों into छोटी टुकड़े, जिससे are then passed through the urinary tract.
One common symptom of kidney stones is a sharp pain in the medial/lateral खण्ड of the lower back.
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held insurance brokerage firm, providing बीमे, रिस्क प्रबन्धन और कर्मचारी लाभ समाधान.
In जोड to इसके Kansas City, Missouri headquarters, Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries.
Lockton is currently home to more than 4,450 Associates worldwide.
The company was founded by Jack Lockton in 1966 and रै चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm.
Lockton serves a wide array of industries with services that include risk प्रबन्धन, casualty, surety, पेशेवर indemnity and more.
For 46 years, Lockton posted extraordinary organic growth, with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in फिस्कल 2012.
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s team works closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create व्यापक और integrated benefits strategies for clients.
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance, executive benefits, health and welfare, health risk solutions, रिटायरमेंट and more.
Lockton Affinity : Lockton अपनापन, an संबद्ध of lockton कंपनियाँ, meets the बीमे needs of affinity groups, franchises, professional organizations, and associations of all sizes.
Lockton Affinity offers a किस्में of insurance product options and programs.
Products include : General Liability, Professional Liability, प्रॉपर्टी, मजदूर मुआवजे, Directors & Officers Liability, Commercial Auto, Specialty Coverage, Excess, Health Plans and more.
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and Ireland, as well as offices throughout Asia and Latin America.
In यूरोपीय, Lockton International is a partner in EOS RISQ, Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk management consultancy.
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European साझेदारी of प्रमुख स्वतंत्र बीमे brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe.
Lockton International provides specialized समाधान लिये निजी lines, SME’s and major multi-national clients.
White chocolate is a chocolate डेरिवेटिव.
It commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, sugar, milk solids and salt, and is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance.
The melting point of cocoa butter, its primary cocoa bean component, is high पर्याप्त to रखना श्वेत chocolate solid at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14, 1950 ) was Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co., the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 उत्पादन ) in the संयुक्त States.
He served in those roles from November 30, 2000, until दिसम्बर 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican party and participant in लोकल और राज्य राजनीती, विशेषकर in his home state of West Virginia.
He has frequently spoken out publicly about politics, the environment, unions, and coal production.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings show Blankenship was paid $ 17.8 million in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
उसके 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 million raise over 2008 and almost double his compensation package in 2007.
Blankenship also received a deferred compensation package valued at $ 27.2 लाख in 2009.
On December 3, 2010, Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the end of the साल, और would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr.
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in English to describe a dog 's bark.
Bow Wow may also refer to:
Bow Wow ( band ), a Japanese hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper ), an अमरीकी rapper and actor
Bow wow सॉस, a सॉस developed in the Cotswolds region of England
Bow Wow wow, a UK new wave band
`` Bow Wow '', a song by The fiery furnaces इससे उनके 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '', a song composed in the 1920s by Cliff dost & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally `` not to pick up something '' ) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances.
The area of tort law known as लापरवाही involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness, not intentional harm.
According to Jay M. Feinman of the Rutgers विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of Law ;
`` The core idea of negligence is that people should exercise reasonable care when they act by taking account of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people. ''
`` those who go personally or bring property जहाँ वे जान कि वे or it may आइये into टक्कर साथ the persons or property of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision. ''
फ्लेचर v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
Through civil litigation, if an घायल व्यक्ति proves कि another व्यक्ति acted negligently to cause their injury, they can recover damages to compensate for their harm.
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to compensation for harm to their body, property, mental well-being, वित्तीय औकात, or अंतरंग relationships.
However, because negligence cases are very fact-specific, this general definition does not fully explain the concept of when the law will require one person to compensate another लिये नुकसान caused by accidental injury.
Further, the law of negligence at common law is only one aspect of the विधि of देयता.
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover मुआवजे in a लापरवाही action, the nature and extent of those damages are not the primary focus of negligence cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( भी ज्ञात as `` nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ).
Some sources equate the term mole with `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other sources reserve the term `` mole '' for other purposes.
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades of a person’s life, while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles.
Acquired औज़ार हैं a रूप of benign फुलाव, जबकि जन्मजात moles, or congenital nevi, are considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk for melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented विकास on the स्किन, formed mostly of a type of cell known as a melanocyte.
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent, मेलेनिन, is responsible for their dark color.
औज़ार हैं a सदस्य of the family of skin lesions known as nevi.
The comprehensive metabolic panel, or chemical screen, ( CMP ; CPT code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an आरंभिक व्यापक चिकित्सा स्क्रीनिंग tool.
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney फलन, जिगर फलन, और electrolyte and fluid balance, but it is far from perfect.
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a परिणाम of गलत positives और यूँ the cbc may need to be repeated for a patient ( or replaced with a more specific test ).
the cmp is an expanded version of the basic metabolic panel ( BMP ), which does not include liver tests.
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination, or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease, such as मधुमेह mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names for the panel of tests have been Chem 12, Chemistry panel, रसायन स्क्रीन, sma 12, SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ).
the परीक्षण हैं performed on मशीने आधारित on the autoanalyzer invented in 1957.
प्राकृतिक gas extraction by countries in cubic meters per year.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring हाइड्रोकार्बन गैस mixture consisting primarily of methane, but commonly including varying amounts of other hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and hydrogen sulfide.
Natural gas is an energy source प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये heating, cooking, and electricity generation.
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a chemical feedstock in the manufacture of plastics and other commercially महत्वपूर्ण सशुल्क रसायन.
Natural gas is found in गहन underground natural rock formations or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates.
Petroleum is also another संसाधन found in proximity to and with natural gas.
Most natural gas was निर्मित over समय by two mechanisms : biogenic and thermogenic.
Biogenic गैस is निर्मित by methanogenic organisms in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at greater temperature and pressure, thermogenic gas is created from buried organic material.
Before natural gas can be used as a ईंधन, it जरूर undergo प्रसंस्करण to remove impurities, including water, to meet the specifications of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of processing include इथेन, प्रोपेन, butanes, pentanes, and higher molecular weight hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ), carbon dioxide, water vapor, and sometimes helium and nitrogen.
Natural gas is often informally referred to simply as gas, especially when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal.
This page is about the कल्पना Movers band.
For information about the tv दिखाएँ अभिनीत the band, see Imagination Movers ( TV series ).
कल्पना मूवर्स is a band formed in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 2003.
The lineup शामिल Rich Collins, Scott Durbin, Dave Poche, and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith.
Members of the समूह यहूद longtime friends and neighbors.
The group प्रारंभ as a television/music concept which was pitched to local PBS affiliates in New Orleans.
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to Beth Courtney, the अध्यक्ष & मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी at Louisiana Public Broadcasting.
Soon after, LPB began airing one-minute videos produced by the कल्पना मूवर्स themselves.
The Movers built a sizable regional following by setting educational songs for kids to melodies और लय कि वयस्कों appreciate as well.
They sold more than 100,000 नक़ल of their self-produced CDs and DVDs.
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas, '' `` Calling All Movers, '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass roots DVD `` Stir It Up '' have, संयुक्त, जीती चौदह नेशनल awards, from such groups as the National Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice.
In early 2005, Disney took notice, और initiated negotiations to add the Movers to the company 's roster.
These were interrupted in August when the flood protection designed and built by the Army Corps of इंजीनियर्स to protect New Orleans failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's office, as well as the homes of कॉलिन्स, durbin और poche – लकिन the सौदे was signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, Walt Disney Records introduced the Imagination Movers ' music to the nation with the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released cd, `` Juice Box Heroes. ''
In September 2008, a 30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the समूह began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as Playhouse Disney, and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement, Disney Junior.
The मूवर्स लिखें और perform all the songs on their show.
Moreover, the Imagination Movers have received नाजुक kudos for their live concert performances.
In October 2009, the Imagination Movers started the `` Live from the Idea Warehouse कॉन्सर्ट दौरे 2009 ''.
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of their favorite songs and नाचना, as खूब as वीडियो appearances of Warehouse Mouse.
Beginning in early-February 2011 and wrapping up in late May 2011, the Imagination Movers presented their `` In a Big Warehouse Concert Tour, '' playing अधिक than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America.
From March to October 2012, the कल्पना मूवर्स toured North America on their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour.
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept, such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their older catalogue ; however, with the प्रस्थान of वेन्डी calio वापस to उसके देशी हवाई, the अक्षर `` नीना '', साथ with her musical numbers, is not present.
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD रिलीज, `` rock-o-matic '', which features all new music from the band.
The album itself is produced independently of Disney and has a notably more mature, contemporary rock-and-roll ध्वनि, हालांकि स्टिल बहुत उचित for children.
Several performance dates यहूद स्थानांतरित to बाद in 2012 to benefit from the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers TV show now playing daily on Disney Junior.
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia, सहित तस्मानिया.
Together with the four species of echidna, it is one of the five extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the तभी स्तनधारियों that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of इस egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the हिन्द foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of New South Wales.
Until the early 20th century, it थी hunted लिये इसके फर, but it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive प्रजनन programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras (, from chupar `` to चूस '' और cabra `` बकरी '', वस्तुतः `` बकरी sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas.
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in प्यूर्टो रीको ( जहाँ ये sightings were first reported ), Mexico, and the United States, especially in the latter 's Latin American communities.
The name comes from the animal 's reported habit of attacking and drinking the रक्त of पशुधन, विशेषकर goats.
Physical descriptions of the प्राणी vary.
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico, and have since been reported as far north as Maine, and as far south as Chile, and even being spotted बाहर the americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines.
It is supposedly a heavy creature, the size of a small bear, with a row of spines reaching from the neck to the base of the tail.
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence, while most reports in उत्तरी मैक्सिको और the दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम verified as canids afflicted by mange.
biologists and wildlife management officials view the chupacabra as a contemporary legend.
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by कनाडा, मैक्सिको, और the United States, creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America.
The agreement came into force on जनवरी 1, 1994.
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade Agreement between the u.S., कनाडा, and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation ( NAAEC ) and the उत्तर अमरीकी अनुबंध on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment and is assessed by subjective मूल्यांकन ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ).
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is एक of the महत्वपूर्ण लक्ष्य of HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) design engineers.
The Predicted Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands among the most पहचाना thermal comfort models.
It was developed using principles of heat balance and प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु chamber under steady state conditions.
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in a controlled climate, it is not suitable for अनुप्रयोग in naturally हवादार spaces which often have high levels of air movement.
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of empirical statistical models of थर्मल सुकून in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models.
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their environment, and controlling their thermal comfort by अर्थात् of clothing or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to thermal सुकून in sealed buildings, in which occupants experience the environment passively.
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction, convection, radiation, and evaporative ऊष्मा loss.
Thermal comfort is maintained when the ऊष्मा उत्पन्न by human metabolism is allowed to dissipate, thus maintaining thermal equilibrium with the surroundings.
It has been long recognized that the sensation of feeling hot or ठंडा is नहीं बस निर्भर on एयर तापमान alone.
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 can be freely performed with the CBE थर्मल सुकून औजार लिये ashrae-55.
Durante degli Alighieri, simply referred to as Dante (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), was a major इतालवी poet of the Middle Ages.
His Divine Comedy, originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio, is widely considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian भाषा and a masterpiece of world literature.
In Italy he is known as ' ( `` the परम् Poet '' ) or just '.
He, Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known as `` the three fountains '' or `` the three crowns ''.
Dante is also called the `` Father of the इतालवी language ''.
Headquarters ( Kobe, Japan )
( ) is a tire and rubber company आधारित in जापानी.
It is भाग of the Sumitomo Group.
The company traces its origins to 1909, when the Sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan, the newly formed जापानी subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber.
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close business relationship, and in 1963 the sumitomo समूह acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd.
In 1985, when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc, the company acquired the automobile tire एसेट of dunlop, including the right to use the Dunlop brand on automobile tires.
the अधिग्रहण किया नहीं शामिल the US and Australian businesses, which were separately owned, but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management.
In 1997, Sumitomo formed a joint venture with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, by which Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires for each other 's markets, सहित dunlop ब्रांडेड tires.
As part of the agreement, Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres, the UK company which Sumitomo had formed, and in Dunlop Tire Corporation.
Goodyear and Sumitomo also made investments in प्रत्येक other.
Today, the company makes a चौड़ी दायरा of रबर आधारित उत्पाद, including automobile tires, golf balls and tennis balls.
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated development environments ( IDE ) developed by Microsoft that are lightweight संस्करण of the Microsoft Visual Studio product line.
Express Editions यहूद conceived beginning with Visual Studio 2005.
The विचार of एक्स्प्रेस editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use and easy-to-learn IDEs for users other than professional software developers, such as hobbyists and students.
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching लगभग across eight Alpine countries from Austria and Slovenia in the east, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south.
The mountains were formed over hundreds of millions of years as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in समुद्री sedimentary रॉक्स उठती by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian border, and at is the highest पहाड़ in the Alps.
The Alpine region area contains अनेक चोटियों higher than, known as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in the mountains precipitation levels vary greatly and climatic शर्तें consist of distinct zones.
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher peaks to elevations of, and plants such as Edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in उच्चतर elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the ऐल्प्स goes वापस to the Paleolithic era.
A mummified man, संकल्पित to be 5,000 years old, was discovered on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991.
By the 6th century BC, the Celtic La Tène संस्कृति थी खूब स्थापित.
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps with a झुंड of elephants, and the Romans had settlements in the region.
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one of the mountain गुजरता with an army of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists, writers, and artists, in particular the Romantics, followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the चोटियों.
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the अल्पाइन countries, with the exception of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war.
The Alpine region has a strong सांस्कृतिक पहचान.
The traditional culture of farming, cheesemaking, and woodworking still exists in Alpine villages, although the tourist industry began to grow early in the 20th century and expanded greatly after World War ii to become the प्रबल उद्योग by the end of the century.
The Winter Olympic Games have been hosted in the Swiss, French, Italian, Austrian और जर्मनी ऐल्प्स.
At present the region is home to 14 million people and रै 120 million annual visitors.
Lois patrice Griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a character from the animated television series Family Guy.
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television, along with the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
Lois थी created and designed by series creator Seth MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve, a short made by macfarlane जिससे प्रदर्शित a middle-aged character named Larry and an intellectual dog, Steve.
After the pilot was given the ग्रीन लाइट, the griffin परिवार appeared on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow ``.
लोइस is the माँ of the Griffin family.
With उसके husband पीटर, वो has had three children : Meg, Chris, and Stewie.
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother, despite her admitting to being a drug user, a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac.
Lois has also had several affairs, one of which allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg.
She has appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a video game, commercials और books—and प्रेरित an entire line of merchandise.
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated इससे a अक्षर in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in, which was largely inspired by a relative who grew up on Long Island, New York.
Family transmission of Basque भाषा ( Basque as initial language )
Percentage of students registered in Basque language schools ( 2000–2005 ).
स्थान of the Basque-language provinces within Spain and France
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque लोगों, जो inhabit the बास्क देश, a प्रदेश spanning an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France.
It is spoken by 27 % of Basques in all territories ( 714,136 आउट of 2,648,998 ).
Of these, 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the Basque country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French part.
In academic चर्चाएँ of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France, it is customary to refer to three ancient provinces in France and four Spanish provinces.
Native speakers are concentrated in a संलग्न area including parts of the Spanish autonomous communities of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the traditional Spanish provinces of Biscay, Gipuzkoa, and Álava, which retain उनके अस्तित्व as politico-administrative विभाजन.
These प्रांतों और अनेक क्षेत्रों of नावारा हैं heavily आबादी by जातीय basques, but Basque was, at least until the 1990s, not spoken as a native language in most of Álava, western parts of Biscay and central and southern areas of Navarre, either because it had been replaced by Spanish along the centuries, in some areas, or because it had never been spoken there, in other areas.
In southwestern France, the ancient basque-populated provinces were Labourd, Lower Navarre, and Soule.
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées, a name which persisted until 1970.
A standardized form of the बास्क भाषा, पुकारा euskara batua, was developed by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s.
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque भाषा could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal situations ( education, mass media, literature ), and this is its main use today.
The role of this standard Basque language depends on the linguistic educational model of प्रत्येक प्रदेश और प्रत्येक school.
In most areas of the स्पेनी बास्क देश, the शैक्षणिक Model D, where all subjects are taught in Basque, except `` Spanish language and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model.
In France, the बास्क भाषा स्कूल seaska और the संघ लिये a दुभाषिया ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide range of Basque language educational needs up to the Sixth Form, while often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints.
Apart from this standardized संस्करण, वहीँ हैं पाँच प्रमुख बास्क dialects : bizkaian, gipuzkoan, and Upper Navarrese in Spain, and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ).
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces, the dialect boundaries are not congruent with province boundaries.
The President, Directors and Company, of the Bank of the United States, commonly known as the First Bank of the United States, was a सेंट्रल बैंको, चार्टर्ड लिये a पद of बीस सालो, by the United States Congress on February 25, 1791.
Establishment of the Bank was included in a three-part विस्तार of संघीय फिस्कल और मौद्रिक शक्ति ( साथ with a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton, first Secretary of the Treasury.
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and improve the nation 's credit, and to improve handling of the financial business of the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी अंतर्गत the newly enacted संविधान.
Officially proposed to the पहला सत्र of the पहला कॉंग्रेस in 1790, Hamilton 's Bank faced widespread resistance from opponents of increased federal power.
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition, which claimed कि the bank was unconstitutional, and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population.
The First Bank building is now a National Historic Landmark located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park.
James Wesley Marsters ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an American actor and musician.
Marsters first came to the attention of the general public playing the popular character Spike, a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the television series buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
Since then, he has gone on to play other science fiction roles, such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series Smallville, the omnisexual time traveller Captain John Hart in British science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood और आतंकवादी Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting भूमिका in the 2007 फिल्म P.S.
I Love तुम और as the main antagonist, Piccolo, in the 2009 fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution.
He appeared as a recurring character in the first season of the revival of Hawaii 5-0.
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors उपज this hormone ; therefore, elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
however, it is नहीं ज्ञात whether this production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hCG, known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the काउंटर hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, known by her stage name Beyoncé ( ; born September 4, 1981 ), is an American singer, songwriter, नर्तकी, और actress.
Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she performed in singing and dancing प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड पहले forming in 1990 a group with Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child.
Once signed to Columbia Records, the girls subsequently became one of the संसार 's best-selling girl groups of all time.
The group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil and Knowles suffered from depression कि lasted for a number of years.
During the group 's hiatus, Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ), which earned her पाँच ग्रैमी Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone.
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love, '' considered by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song of the 00 's, '' and `` Baby Boy. ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005, नॉलेस 's दूसरी सोलो एल्बम B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` Déjà Vu ``, `` Irreplaceable ``, and `` Beautiful Liar ``.
Her performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) अर्जित उसके दो सुनहरी Globe nominations.
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in that film inspired her subsequent एल्बम i Am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` If I Were a Boy ``, `` Single Ladies ( put a रिंग on it ) ``, `` Halo ``, and `` Sweet Dreams ``.
The album also helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010, breaking the record for most Grammy पुरस्कार जीती by a मादा कलाकार in one night.
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional R & B and became her fourth लगातार क्रमांक एक एल्बम on the Billboard 200.
In January 2012, Knowles gave जनम to बेटी Blue Ivy Carter, her first child with husband Jay-Z.
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी ( as well as a further 50 million records with Destiny 's Child ), and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
The Recording Industry संघ of अमेरिका ( RIAA ) recognized Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s.
In 2009, Billboard named her the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and ranked her the Top Female Artist and the fourth कलाकार of the दशक.
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history, receiving 17 awards ; other accolades include 12 MTV Video Music Awards, 7 Billboard Awards सहित a मिलेनियम पुरस्कार, और a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child.
`` एंग्री सब the Time '' is the title of a song written by Bruce Robison and first recorded on his 1998 album Wrapped.
it थी बाद covered by Tim McGraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill.
Released in July 2001, McGraw 's version was the दूसरी single from McGraw 's Set This Circus Down album.
the song reached Number One on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks ( now Hot Country Songs ) charts.
Dear John is a 2010 American रोमांटिक नाटक - युद्ध फिल्मी अभिनीत Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum.
It थी released theatrically in North America on February 5, 2010.
The film was निर्देशित by lasse hallström, and it is an adaptation of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name.
It follows the life of a soldier ( Channing Tatum ) after he falls in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ).
They decide to exchange letters to प्रत्येक other after he is deployed to the war.
The movie थी फिल्माया in 2009 in Charleston, South Carolina.
despite receiving negative reviews, the film made a strong box office performance, knocking off Avatar after seven weekends in first place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The film was released on May 25, 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray.
ये हैं सूचियाँ of the busiest airports in the United States.
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport is the busiest सिंगल विमानक्षेत्र in the United States.
However, all of the New York City महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest विमानक्षेत्र system in the United States, second in the world in terms of passenger traffic, and first in the world in terms of total flight operations.
Dora the Explorer is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by Chris Gifford, Valerie Walsh, and Eric Weiner.
Dora the Explorer became a regular series in 2000.
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable टेलीविज़न संजाल, सहित the associated Nick Jr. channel.
It aired on CBS until सितंबर 2006.
A spanish-dubbed संस्करण पहला aired as भाग of a उपनाम en español ब्लाक on एनबीसी Universal -owned Telemundo through September 2006 ; since April 2008, this version of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block.
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge, ) ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico.
It is the fourth-largest नगर in the state and is the seat of.
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census.
It is the प्रिंसिपल city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County and is part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area.
The city’s full name when founded was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San फ्रांसिस्को de asís ( “the royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced और manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created और विकसित in 1893 और introduced as Brad 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
1765 broadside
the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता थी a समूह consisting of अमरीकी देशप्रेमी कि originated in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी अंग्रेजों colonies.
the समूह थी formed to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by the British government.
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea Party in 1773, which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense crackdown by the अंग्रेजों सरकारी ), and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
ओसाका castle
is a नगर in the कन्साई region of Japan 's main island of Honshu, a designated city under the Local Autonomy Law, the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis, which comprises three major cities of Japan, Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe.
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay, Osaka is Japan 's third largest नगर by जनसांख्यिकी after Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest metropolitan areas highly ranked in the world, with nearly 19 million people, and by GDP the second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world.
historically the commercial center of Japan, Osaka functions as one of the command centers for the Japanese economy.
The ratio between daytime and night time जनसांख्यिकी is 141 %, the उच्चतम in जापानी, highlighting its status as an economic center.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million, the third in the country, but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million, second only after Tokyo ( combining the special wards of Tokyo, which is नहीं a सिंगल incorporated नगर, for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal Edo period because it was the centre of trading लिये राइस, creating the first modern futures exchange market in the world.
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen, The Little Mermaid tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत mermaid who dreams of becoming human.
Written, directed, and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker, with music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman, the film features the voices Jodi Benson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Jason Marin, Kenneth मंगल, दोस्त hacket, और रेने Auberjonois.
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series, The Little Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14, 1989 to largely positive reviews, garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial release, and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross.
After the success of the 1988 डिज़्नी / amblin फिल्मी जो framed रोजर खरगोश, the छोटी मरमेड is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s.
It also marked the start of the era known as the Disney Renaissance.
A stage adaptation of the film with a book by Doug Wright and additional songs by Alan Menken and new गीतों ग्लेन स्लेटर खोली in डेनवर in जुलाई 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up photo of a metal spoon filled साथ a viscous, clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug popular in the hip hop community in the southern United States, originating in Houston, Texas.
Its प्रमुख संघटक is prescription -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough syrup is typically mixed with ingredients ऐसे as sprite नरम पेय or Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy.
The purplish वर्ण of purple drank comes from dyes in the cough syrup.
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank, including sizzurp, lean, syrup, drank, barre, purple जेली, टेक्सास चाय, और tsikuni.
First/given, middle, and last/family/surname आरेख साथ J. S. Bach as example.
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six तात्कालिक family members and many extended family members.
He shared his family नाम with most family members.
A given name, in Western contexts often referred to as a first name, is a personal name that specifies and differentiates between सदस्यों of a समूह of individuals, especially in a family, all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ).
A given name is purposefully given, usually by a चाइल्ड 's अभिभावक at or near birth, in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name.
A given name is sometimes legally changed through a नाम बदलें.
Given names are often used in a familiar and friendly manner in अनौपचारिक परिस्थितियों.
In more formal situations the surname is used instead, unless it is necessary to distinguish between people with the same surname.
The idiom `` on a first-name basis '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the अपनेपन of addressing another by a given name.
The western style of having both a family name ( surname ) and a given name is far from universal.
In अनेक countries it is common for ordinary people to have only one name ( a mononym ).
Hydrochloric acid is a साफ, colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water.
It is a highly corrosive, strong mineral acid साथ अनेक industrial uses.
Hydrochloric एसिड is found naturally in gastric acid.
Historically called muriatic एसिड, और spirits of salt, hydrochloric acid was produced from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt.
It first appeared during the Renaissance, and then it was प्रयुक्त by chemists ऐसे as Glauber, Priestley and Davy in their scientific research.
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a रासायनिक अभिकर्मक in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic, and MDI / TDI for polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale applications, including household सफ़ाई, उत्पादन of जिलेटिन और other food additives, descaling, and leather processing.
About 20 million tonnes of hydrochloric acid are produced annually.
Wheat ( Triticum spp. ) is a cereal grain, originally from the Levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands, but now cultivated विश्वव्यापी.
In 2010, world उत्पादन of गेहूं थी 651 million tons, making it the third most-produced cereal after maize ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ).
गेहूं was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in that year was 682 million tons, after maize ( 817 million tons ), and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ).
This grain is grown on more land area than कोई अन्य commercial food.
संसार trade in wheat is greater than for all other crops combined.
Globally, wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human food, having a higher protein सामग्री than soybeans or the अन्य प्रमुख cereals, maize ( corn ) or rice.
In terms of total production tonnages used for food, it is currently second to rice as the main human food crop and ahead of maize, बाद allowing लिये मक्का 's अधिक extensive use in animal feeds.
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of civilization because it was one of the first crops that could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and had the अतिरिक्त लाभ of yielding a कटाई कि provides long-term storage of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the Fertile Crescent, including the Babylonian and Assyrian empires.
गेहूं अनाज is a स्टेपल खाना प्रयुक्त to मेक आटा लिये leavened, flat and steamed breads, biscuits, cookies, cakes, breakfast cereal, pasta, noodles, couscous and for fermentation to make beer, other alcoholic beverages, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock, and its straw can be used as a निर्माण सामग्री for roofing thatch.
The whole grain can be milled to छोड़ बस the endosperm for white flour.
The by-products of इस हैं bran and germ.
The whole grain is a concentrated source of vitamins, minerals, and protein, while the refined grain is ज़्यादातर starch.
मुद्रण
To publish is to make content available to the सामान्य public.
While specific use of the term may vary among देशों, it is usually applied to text, images, or other audio-visual content on any traditional medium, including paper ( newspapers, magazines, catalogs, etc. ).
The word publication means the act of publishing, and also refers to any printed copies.
Melissa & Joey is an एबीसी परिवार असली टेलीविज़न series starring Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence.
It first aired on एबीसी Family on August 17, 2010.
The series फ़ॉलो लोकल राजनेता Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ), whom Mel hires to look after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC परिवार for a second season of fifteen episodes, which began airing on May 30, 2012 and ended on August 29, 2012.
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target audiences 18–34, 18–49 and 12–34 demographics.
On August 17, 2012, ABC Family renewed मेलिसा & जॉय लिये a तीसरा season, set to premiere in spring 2013.
The Dharma wheel, often used to represent the Noble eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold पाथ (, ) is एक of the principal teachings of the Buddha, who described it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening.
It is used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) और to eradicate greed, hatred, and delusion.
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the पहला तत्व of the प्रतिष्ठित Eightfold Path is, in turn, an understanding of the Four Noble Truths.
It is also known as the Middle Path or मध्य Way.
All eight elements of the Path begin with the शब्द `` सही '', which translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
These denote completion, togetherness, and coherence, and can also suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal ''.
'Samma ' is also translated as `` wholesome '', `` wise '' and `` skillful ''.
In Buddhist symbolism, the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold Path is often represented by means of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ), whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path.
The Grammy Award for Song of the Year is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards.
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the संयुक्त राज्य to `` सम्मान artistic achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position. ''
Economics is the social science that analyzes the उत्पादन, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ', `` management of a household, administration '' ) from ( ', `` house '' ) + ( ', `` custom '' or `` law '' ), hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) ''.
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject, but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` economic science '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the subject is how आर्थिक एजेंटों behave or interact and how economies work.
Consistent साथ इस, a प्राथमिक textbook distinction is between microeconomics and macroeconomics.
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic elements in the economy, including व्यक्तिगत agents ( such as households and firms or as buyers and sellers ) and markets, and their interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy और मुद्दे affecting it, सहित unemployment, inflation, economic growth, and monetary and fiscal policy.
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ).
Economic analysis may be applied throughout समाज, as in business, finance, health care, and government, but also to such diverse subjects as crime, education, the family, law, politics, religion, social institutions, war, and science.
At the turn of the 21st सदी, the expanding domain of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.
An increasing क्रमांक of economists have called for increased emphasis on environmental sustainability ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics.
This is a list of अनुसूची IV drugs under the Controlled Substances Act for the United States.
Required findings for दवाएँ to be लगाई in this schedule:
The drug or अन्य पदार्थ रै a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.
The drug or other substance has a currently accepted चिकित्सा उपयोग in treatment in the United States.
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in अनुसूची III.
The पूरा सूची of Schedule IV drugs are as follows.
The प्रशासनिक नियंत्रित substances Code Number for each drug is included.
US काउंटी household median income 2009.
Median US household आय, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United States government और निजी संस्थानों.
Each household is measured by the income of every resident over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, बेरोजगारी बीमे, विकलांगता भुगतान, चाइल्ड support payments received, regular rental receipts, as well as any personal business, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
जबकि inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
U.S. median household income fell इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, अर्थ households जीना on कम than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a समान आर्थिक context, the use of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into खाता in ऐसे उपायों may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations within or among the household income categories, and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of decrease with height for an atmospheric variable.
The variable शामिल is temperature unless specified otherwise.
The terminology arises from the शब्द बीतने in the sense of a decrease or decline.
While most often applied to Earth 's माहौल the अवधारणा can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball of gas.
Blue Mountain State is an American कॉमेडी श्रेणी that premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
The series producers include क्रिस Romano and Eric Falconer, and it is produced by Lionsgate Television.
The series is about a fictional university, Blue Mountain State, and its football team, `` The Mountain Goats. ''
It portrays certain aspects of American विश्वविद्यालयों जीवन, सहित football, sex, binge drinking, drugs, wild partying, and hazing.
In February 2012, it was reported that Blue Mountain State would not be नवीनीकृत for a fourth season.
In March 2013, Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on a ब्लू Mountain State film.
Apple Inc., formerly Apple Computer, Inc., is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino, California that designs, develops, and sells consumer इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, कंप्यूटर software and personal computers.
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac लकीर of कंप्यूटर, the iPod music player, the iPhone smartphone, and the iPad tablet computer.
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating प्रणालियों, the iTunes media browser, the Safari web browser, and the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites.
The company was founded on अप्रैल 1, 1976, और incorporated as Apple Computer, Inc. on January 3, 1977.
The word `` कंप्यूटर '' थी removed from its name on January 9, 2007, reflecting its shifted focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स, and the world 's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia.
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the United States in 2008, और in the संसार इससे 2008 to 2012.
However, the company has received criticism for its contractors ' labor practices, and for ठहराना 's own environmental and business practices.
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in fourteen countries as well as the online ठहराना स्टोर and iTunes Store.
It is the second-largest publicly traded निगम in the संसार by मार्केट capitalization, with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013.
, the कम्पनी था 72,800 permanent full-time employees and 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide.
Its worldwide सालाना आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 billion.
Section 8 housing in the दक्षिण Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ), often simply known as Section 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the payment of rental housing सहायता to निजी जमींदार on behalf of approximately 3.1 million low-income households.
It operates through several programs, the largest of which, the आवास चुनाव वाउचर program, pays a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households.
The US Department of Housing and Urban Development manages the Section 8 programs.
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता, so a tenant can move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another.
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the खरीदें of a घर, with over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ).
The अधिकतम अनुमत वाउचर is $ 2200 a month.
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs, under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a building for low-income tenants, in return for a Federal government guarantee to make up the अंतर between the किरायेदार 's योगदान और the किराया लिये 1 cent in the मालिक 's अनुबंध साथ the government.
A tenant who leaves a subsidized प्रोजेक्ट will lose access to the project-based subsidy.
The United States Department of Housing and शहरी विकास और संयुक्त States Department of Veterans Affairs have a special Section 8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ), or HUD-VASH, which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans.
Restaurants categorized by type and information about these अलग types.
U.S. Federal Reserve notes in the mid-1990s
The history of the United States dollar covers more than 200 years.
