A partly submerged हिमानी गुफा on Perito Moreno Glacier.
The ice facade is लगभग 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis हिमानी cave
A glacier cave is a गुफा formed भीतर the ice of a glacier.
Glacier caves are प्रायः पुकारा बर्फ गुफाएं, लकिन इस पद is properly प्रयुक्त to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice.
In भौतिकी, गोलाकार गति is a गति of an ऑब्जेक्ट along the circumference of a circle or rotation along a circular path.
It can be वर्दी, साथ निरंतर कोणीय रेट of रोटेशन ( और constant speed ), or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation.
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional देह involves गोलाकार motion of its parts.
The equations of गति describe the गति of the center of mass of a body.
Examples of circular गति शामिल : an कृत्रिम उपग्रह orbiting the धरती at निरंतर ऊँचाई, a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a रस्सी और is होने swung in वृत्त, a car turning through a curve in a race track, an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field, and a gear turning inside a mechanism.
चूंकि the ऑब्जेक्ट 's गति वेक्टर is constantly बदलना दिशा, the चलती object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation.
बगैर इस त्वरण, the ऑब्जेक्ट होता मूव in a सीधा line, according to Newton 's laws of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films, initially portrayed as the undisputed हेवीवेट चैंपियन of the World.
He was played by कार्ल weathers.
Creed had multiple nicknames, सहित the निपुण of विपत्ति, the किंग of स्टिंग, the नाचना विनाशक, The Prince of Punch, The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto.
Urban legend राज्य कि अपोलो पंथ 's नाम is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed, a statement of belief used in Christian churches.
All of Apollo 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित for the 15 round distance.
चैंपियनशिप झगड़े किया नहीं convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987.
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the रेड, श्वेत, और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ थी the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white, as seen in Rocky II.
Balboa 's signature colors यहूद ब्लैक और gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in the latest movie.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, acts of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate justices of the परम् अदालत, सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals, और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त States district courts.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the न्यायिक शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी by आलेख iii of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other न्यायाधीशों सेवारत in the संघीय न्यायालयों, सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however, they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate, and their power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I and Article iii अधिकरणों.
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic पिस्टल designed by Beretta in Italy.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the beretta u.s.A. सुविधा in accokeek, Maryland.
it is a further विकास of the Beretta Model 20, whose production ended in 1985.
Variable Universal Life बीमे ( प्रायः shortened to vul ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value.
In a VUL, the cash value can be invested in a चौड़ी किस्में of पृथक खाते, समान to परस्पर निधि, और the चुनाव of जिससे of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' घटक in the नाम refers to इस क्षमता to invest in पृथक खाते जिनकी मान vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets.
The 'universal ' घटक in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments.
The प्रीमियम can vary इससे nothing in a दिए माह up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance.
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan विशेषता, or आत्मसमर्पण dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a type of permanent जीवन बीमे, क्युकी the मौत लाभ होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy.
With most if not all VULs, unlike whole life, there is no endowment age ( the age at which the नकदी मान बराबरी the मौत लाभ राशि, जिससे लिये पूरे जीवन is typically 100 ).
This is yet another कुंजी लाभ of VUL over Whole Life.
With a ठेठ पूरे जीवन नीति, the मौत लाभ is सीमित to the फेस राशि निर्दिष्ट in the policy, and at endowment age, the face amount is all that is paid out.
Thus with either death or endowment, the बीमे कम्पनी keeps कोई नकदी मान निर्मित up over the years.
However, some participating पूरे जीवन नीतियों प्रस्ताव राइडर्स जिससे बताएँ कि कोई dividends सशुल्क on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time.
If investments made in the पृथक खाते out-perform the सामान्य खाता of the insurance company, a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment age, continually increasing death benefit, and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy, this could result in उच्चतर मान to the मालिक or लाभार्थी than कि of a पूरे जीवन नीति साथ the वही amounts of money paid in as premiums.
The बाहरी लकडी बॉयलर is a रूपांतर of the क्लासिक लकडी स्टोव adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings.
A mound of लड़की स्काउट कुकीज़.
इस mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its प्रमुख fundraisers लिये लोकल Scout units.
सदस्यों of the gsusa have महरूम selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds.
Girls जो participate can earn prizes for their efforts.
There are also unit incentives if the unit as a whole करता खूब.
As of 2007, sales were estimated at about 200 लाख बाक्स प्रति साल.
विश्वविद्यालयों Hall
Purdue University, located in West lafayette, इंडियाना, is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly, taking advantage of the Morrill Act, accepted a donation of land and money from lafayette बिजनेसमैन जॉन purdue to स्थापित a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name.
The पहला वर्ग यहूद आयोजित on सितंबर 16, 1874, with six instructors and 39 students.
Today, Purdue is a सदस्य of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन, और is a well known world-class research institution.
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any विश्वविद्यालयों in इंडियाना as खूब as the चौथी largest international student population of any university in the United States.
Purdue offers both undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211 प्रमुख क्षेत्रों of पढ़ाई, और is खूब known for its competitive engineering curricula.
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation, having established the first college क्रेडिट offered in उड़ान प्रशिक्षण, the पहला four-year स्नातक 's उपाधि in विमानन, और the पहला विश्वविद्यालयों airport ( Purdue University Airport ).
Purdue 's aviation प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific programs in the world.
In the mid-20th सदी, purdue 's विमानन program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
Twenty-three purdue graduates have गए on to become astronauts, सहित गस Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ), Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ), and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी ज्ञात as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates इससे बाल follicles, by परिभाषा, neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the वसीय, श्वेत, semi-solid सामग्री in दोनो of these cyst entities is not sebum, but keratin.
Furthermore, under the microscope neither entity contains वसामय glands.
In अभ्यास, however, the शर्तें are often used interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare और हैं ज्ञात as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma multiplex.
आधुनिक pointe shoes.
The edge of the toe pad, जिससे is inserted between the पैर और toe box for cushioning, can be seen on the right foot.
A pointe जूता is a प्रकार of जूता worn by ballet dancers when performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes विकसित इससे the ख्वाहिश लिये नर्तक to appear weightless और sylph -like और have विकसित to enable नर्तक to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, हालांकि पुरूष नर्तक may पहनें उन्हें लिये अपरंपरागत भूमिकाएँ ऐसे as the भद्दा stepsisters in सिंडरेला, नीचे in a midsummer Night 's Dream, or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva.
They are manufactured in a किस्में of रंगों, most commonly in shades of light pink.
This tablespoon has a क्षमता of परिचय 15 mL.
measuring spoons
In the us और भाग of कनाडा, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl.
In the UK, Europe और सबसे राष्ट्रमंडल countries, a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving.
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon, the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the मिठाई चमचा or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the क्षमता of one tablespoon, is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable विभिन्नता.
In the USA one tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is लगभग 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL.
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया एक tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry Potter is a series of सात काल्पनिक novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard, Harry Potter, and his friends Ronald वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर, सब of जिसको हैं विद्यार्थी at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort, whose aims are to become अमर, जीतें the wizarding संसार, subjugate non-magical लोगों, और destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter.
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the पारस 's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997, the किताबे have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide.
The series has also had some share of आलोचना, सहित चिंता लिये the increasingly dark tone.
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies, making it the best-selling book श्रेणी in इतिहास, और रै महरूम translated into 67 languages.
The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling किताबे in history.
A series of many genres, including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery, thriller, adventure, और रोमांस ), it रै अनेक cultural meanings and references.
According to Rowling, the main थीम is मौत.
There are also many other themes in the श्रेणी, ऐसे as पूर्वाग्रह और भ्रष्टाचार.
The initial major publishers of the books were bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम and Scholastic Press in the United States.
The books have चूंकि महरूम प्रकाशित by many publishers worldwide.
The books, with the seventh book split into दो भाग, have महरूम बना into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time.
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise, making the Harry कुम्हार ब्रांड लायक in excess of $ 15 अरब.
Also due to the success of the books and films, Harry Potter has been प्रयुक्त लिये a थीम पार्क, the wizarding संसार of हैरी कुम्हार in सार्वभौमिक Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure.
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's stennis स्पेस Center.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to इस इंजन 's exhaust होने ज़्यादातर अतितप्त steam ( water vapor from its propellants, hydrogen and oxygen )
viking 5C rocket engine
A rocket engine, or simply `` rocket '', is a jet engine that uses तभी भंडारित propellant द्रव्यमान लिये forming इसके ऊँची गति propulsive jet.
प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन हैं प्रतिक्रिया इंजन और obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law.
Since they need no बाह्य सामग्री to रूप उनके जेट, प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन can be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses, such as missiles.
Most rocket engines are internal combustion इंजन, हालांकि non-combusting फ़ॉर्म भी मौजूद.
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust गतियाँ, हैं by दूर the lightest, लकिन हैं the तनिक propellant efficient of all types of jet engines.
``... Baby One More समय '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी recording artist Britney Spears.
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from her debut studio album,... baby एक अधिक समय ( 1999 ).
लिखा by अधिकतम मार्टिन और उत्पादित by मार्टिन और Rami, ``... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song इससे toni braxton, स्पीयर्स हस्ताक्षरित a multi-album deal with Jive.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop और dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a girl who regrets breaking up with her boyfriend.
The song received generally favorable reviews इससे आलोचकों, जो praised its composition.
``... Baby One More Time '' attained वैश्विक कामयाबी, reaching क्रमांक one in every country it charted.
It also प्राप्त numerous certifications around the संसार, and is one of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies sold.
An accompanying music video, directed by Nigel Dick, portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक ऊँची स्कूल, जो starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school, while watching her love interest from afar.
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), where स्पीयर्स 's fictional बेटी is वेश साथ a समान schoolgirl पहनावा जबकि wearing pink ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the music video for ``... Baby One More Time '' थी voted the तीसरा सबसे influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll held by Jam !.
Spears has performed ``... Baby One अधिक समय '' in a क्रमांक of सजीव दिखावे और in all of her concert tours.
It was the encore of the... Baby One More Time दौरे ( 1999 ) और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स भी performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops !...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ), the गोमेद होटल दौरे ( 2004 ), The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ), The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ), and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन, और रै महरूम included in lists by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
It has been noted for redefining the ध्वनि of late 1990s music.
Spears has named ``... Baby One More Time '' as one of उसके पसंदीदा गीतों इससे उसके करियर.
It was also the final सोंग to be निभाई on the बीबीसी 's म्यूज़िक कार्यक्रम Top of the Pops.
Cholera is an infection in the छोटी आंत caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The main symptoms are watery अतिसार and vomiting.
Transmission occurs primarily by पीने जल or खाने खाना कि रै महरूम contaminated by the मल ( waste product ) of an infected person, including one with no apparent symptoms.
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid निर्जलीकरण और electrolyte असंतुलन, और मौत in some cases.
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy, typically with oral पुनर्जलीकरण समाधान, to बदलें water and electrolytes.
If this is not tolerated or करता नहीं provide सुधार fast enough, intravenous fluids can also be used.
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those साथ कठोर बीमारी to shorten its duration and severity.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 लाख लोगों और कल्याणकारी 100,000–130,000 deaths a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be पढ़ाई by epidemiological methods.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the सीसे स्टोरी in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 जून 1890, printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine.
The magazine 's editors feared the स्टोरी was indecent as submitted, so they censored roughly 500 words, without Wilde 's knowledge, before publication.
But even with that, the story was still greeted with outrage by अंग्रेजों reviewers, कुछ of जिसको सुझाया कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds, leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story for book publication, making substantial alterations, deleting controversial passages, adding new chapters and including an aphoristic preface जिससे रै चूंकि become famous in its own right.
The amended संस्करण थी प्रकाशित by Ward, Lock and Company in April 1891.
Some scholars believe that Wilde would आज have चाही us to पढ़ा the संस्करण he originally सुपुर्द to Lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian धूसर, the विषय of a painting by artist Basil Hallward.
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him, believing उसके सौंदर्य is जिम्मेदार लिये a नई विधि in उसके art.
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton, a friend of बेसिल 's, और becomes enthralled by रब Henry 's world view.
Espousing a नई hedonism, रब हेनरी suggests the तभी बाते worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade, Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to बेचें उसके आत्मा to ensure the पोर्ट्रेट बेसिल रै चित्रित होता age rather than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a जीवन of विलासिता, the पोर्ट्रेट serves as a स्मरण of the effect each act has upon his soul, with each sin displayed as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
the चित्र of डोरियन धूसर is considered a work of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ), known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ), is a Hungarian -born अमरीकी अभिनेत्री जो acted in supporting भूमिकाएँ in फिल्मों, on ब्रॉडवे, और occasionally on television.
गैबर थी भी a socialite.
She began उसके स्टेज करियर in वियना at age 15, and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936.
She emigrated to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1941 और became a sought-after actress with `` European flair and style '', with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace ''.
Her first movie role थी as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At.
She बाद acted in We 're Not Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ), directed by John हस्टन, जो वर्णित उसके as a `` creditable '' actress.
Besides her फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न दिखावे, वो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये having नौ पतियों, सहित hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders.
She once stated, `` मेन have सदा liked me और I have always liked men.
But I like a mannish man, a man जो knows कैसा to बात to और दावत a woman – not just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 नवम्बर 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist, actor, martial arts instructor, philosopher, and filmmaker.
The founder of जीत kune do, ली थी the बेटे of cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by commentators, critics, media and other martial artists to be one of the सबसे influential martial कलाकारों of सब समय, और a pop culture icon of the 20th century.
He is often credited with helping to change the way Asians यहूद प्रस्तुत in अमरीकी films.
Lee was born in Chinatown, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 नवम्बर 1940 to अभिभावक इससे हांग काँग and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens.
He was introduced to the फिल्मी उद्योग by उसके father and appeared in several films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher education, and it was during this time that he began शिक्षण martial कला.
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the परंपरागत हांग काँग martial कला फिल्मी to a नई स्तर of लोकप्रियता and acclaim, sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial कला films in हांग काँग और the बाकी of the world.
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ), directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) और the खेल of मौत ( 1978 ), दोनो निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world, particularly among the चाइनीज, as he portrayed चाइनीज राष्ट्रवाद in उसके films.
He initially trained in Wing Chun, but later अस्वीकृत well-defined martial आर्ट शैलियाँ, favouring बजाय the उपयोग of तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत, in the स्पिरिट of उसके personal martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ).
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong काँग और the संयुक्त States.
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 जुलाई 1973 at आयु 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), also known as chronic obstructive फेफड़ों बीमारी ( ठंडा ), दीर्घकालिक obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ), दीर्घकालिक airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory बीमारी ( cord ), is the occurrence of दीर्घकालिक ब्रोंकाइटिस or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time.
This हद airflow to और इससे the फेफड़े, causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ).
In clinical practice, copd is पारिभाषित by इसके characteristically low airflow on lung function tests.
In कंट्रास्ट to दमा, इस limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time.
COPD is caused by noxious अणु or गैस, सबसे commonly इससे tobacco smoking, which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung.
The diagnosis of COPD requires फेफड़ों function tests.
Important प्रबन्धन रणनीति हैं धूम्रपान cessation, vaccinations, rehabilitation, and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some patients go on to आवश्यकता long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation.
Worldwide, COPD ranked as the छठे अग्रणी कारण of मौत in 1990.
It is projected to become the चौथी अग्रणी कारण of मौत विश्वव्यापी by 2030, due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries.
COPD is the third leading कारण of मौत in the u.S., और the आर्थिक बोझ of copd in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity.
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank (, ?, ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the सबसे discussed यहूदी पीड़ितों of the holocaust.
Her diary has been the आधार लिये several plays and films.
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar जर्मनी, वो जिया सबसे of उसके जीवन in or near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
Born a जर्मनी नेशनल, फ़्रैंक lost her citizenship in 1941.
She gained international fame मरणोपरांत बाद उसके डायरी थी published.
It documents her अनुभवों छुपाना दौरान the जर्मनी occupation of the Netherlands in World War II.
The फ़्रैंक परिवार स्थानांतरित इससे Germany to Amsterdam in 1933, the year the Nazis gained control over Germany.
By the beginning of 1940, they यहूद फंस in एम्सटर्डम by the नाजी occupation of the Netherlands.
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942, the परिवार गई into छुपाना in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father, Otto Frank 's, office building.
After two years, the समूह थी गद्दारी और transported to concentration camps.
Anne Frank and her sister, Margot, were eventually transferred to the bergen-belsen concentration camp, where they died of typhus in March 1945.
Otto Frank, the only उत्तरजीवी of the परिवार, लौटे to एम्सटर्डम after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved, and his efforts led to its publication in 1947.
It was अनूदित इससे इसके असली डच और पहला प्रकाशित in अंग्रेज़ी in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl.
It has since been अनूदित into many languages.
The diary, which was दिए to ऐनी on उसके 13th जन्मदिवस, क्रॉनिकल्स उसके जीवन इससे 12 जून 1942 जबतक 1 August 1944.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, best ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर, guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी x, और कोबेन hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing उसके संदेश और कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक, साथ उसके निजी issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's दर्शक साथ इसके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, बीमारी and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public चित्र, और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
on अप्रैल 8, 1994, कोबेन थी मिला मुर्दे at उसके home in Seattle, the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
the हालातों of उसके मौत at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since their debut, Nirvana, with कोबेन as a songwriter, रै बेची over 25 million albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
Radial engine timing and कैम यांत्रिकी.
Click for full रेज़ोल्यूशन एनिमेशन.
Radial engine of a बाईप्लेन
Master rod ( upright ), slaves and balances इससे a two-row, fourteen-cylinder pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a प्रत्यागमनी प्रकार आतंरिक दहन इंजन विन्यास in जिससे the सिलेंडर point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front, and is called a `` स्टार इंजन '' ( जर्मनी sternmotor ) in कुछ languages.
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines पहले टर्बाइन इंजन became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an अमरीकी sitcom, निर्मित by सुसान हैरिस, कि originally aired on NBC from September 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
Starring Bea आर्थर, बेट्टी श्वेत, rue mcclanahan and Estelle Getty, the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami, Florida.
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris प्रोडक्शन्स, in संघ साथ touchstone टेलीविज़न, और पॉल Junger Witt, Tony Thomas, and Harris served as the original executive producers.
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout सबसे of इसके चलाएं और जीती अनेक awards, including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best टेलीविज़न श्रेणी – Musical or Comedy.
All four सितारों प्रत्येक प्राप्त an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations.
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for छह आउट of इसके सात सीज़न.
Deepwater खुदाई is the प्रक्रम of आयल और गैस खोजी और production in depths of more than 500 feet.
By this definition, there are approximately 600 deepwater कुएं in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको.
It has been economically infeasible for many years, but with rising oil कीमतें, अधिक कंपनियाँ हैं निवेश in इस area.
Major companies working in this सेक्टर शामिल डायमंड offshore, TransOcean, and Baker Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater खुदाई rigs : semi-submersible खुदाई rigs and drillships.
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( मंच ) or tension-leg मंच.
Recent industry analysis has अनुमानित कि the कुल व्यय in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011.
“Not all oil is accessible on जमीन or in उथले जल.
You can find some oil जमा दफ्न गहन अंतर्गत the समंदर floor.”... using sonic equipment, oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil.
Then they उपयोग a मोबाईल offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well.
Some units are converted into उत्पादन rigs, अर्थ वे स्विच इससे खुदाई for oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the time, the oil कम्पनी होगा बदलें the मोदू साथ a अधिक स्थाई आयल उत्पादन rig to capture oil.”... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits.
The part of the drill that extends नीचे the डेक और through the जल is called the riser.
The riser allows for drilling fluids to मूव between the मंजिल और the रिग.
Engineers निम्नतर a ड्रिल स्ट्रिंग -- a श्रेणी of पाइप designed to ड्रिल down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite दुर्घटनाओं in offshore फ़ील्ड... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling लाखो of गैलन of आयल into the गल्फ of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater खुदाई ट्रेंड is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling, analyst say, is continuing ऊँची माँग लिये energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is लगभग जरुरी to फेस the ऊँची risks कि आइये साथ deepwater drilling in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives.
“The उर्जा विभाग recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day, still nearly a quarter of total domestic production, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the पर्यावरण in दोनो ऋणात्मक and positive ways.
Although Deepwater खुदाई rarely कल्याणकारी आयल spills it is स्टिल a hazardous possible outcome.
Oil spills result in आयल डूब to the नीचे of the समंदर smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive.
On the other hand deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the पर्यावरण in a positive ways too.
In time once the deepwater oil खूब is नहीं in उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in.
Deepwater drilling also lets us देखिए the गहराइयों of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells रिकार्ड फुटेज और लो फ़ोटो of विरल मछली कि हैं in there natural habitat, giving scientist a look at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
फ्रांसिस अल्बर्ट `` फ़्रैंक '' सिनात्रा,, ( दिसम्बर 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor.
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey, Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo कलाकार इससे the जल्दी to mid-1940s बाद होने signed to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the आइडल of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released his first album, The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946.
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s, but it was reborn in 1953 after he won the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting कर्ता for his performance in From Here to Eternity.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours, गीतों लिये swingin ' प्रेमियों !, आइये मक्खी साथ me, तभी the निर्जन and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio कार्लोस jobim ), toured internationally, थी a founding सदस्य of the चूहा पैक और fraternized with celebrities and statesmen, including John F. Kennedy.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective सितंबर of my सालो, स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न खास फ़्रैंक Sinatra : A Man and His Music, and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way ``.
With sales of his music dwindling और बाद appearing in अनेक poorly प्राप्त films, Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971.
Two years later, however, he came आउट of रिटायरमेंट और in 1973 अंकित several albums, scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York, New York `` in 1980.
Using his Las Vegas shows as a घर आधार, he toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और internationally, जबतक a short time before his death in 1998.
Sinatra also forged a highly कामयाब करियर as a film actor.
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953, he also garnered a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये the man साथ the सुनहरी भुजा, और critical acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate.
He also स्ट्रक्चर in ऐसे musicals as ऊँची समाज, Pal Joey, Guys and Dolls and On the Town.
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 और थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता by रोनाल्ड reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards, including the Grammy Trustees Award, Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार.
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling artists of all time, having sold more than 150 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
ठेठ cornhole board
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, corn toss, baggo or bags, is a lawn game in जिससे खिलाड़ी लो turns फेंकना मकई छेद बैग at a उठाया platform with a hole in the far end.
A bag in the hole scores 3 points, while one on the मंच स्कोर 1 पाइंट.
Play continues जबतक a टोली or खिलाड़ी reaches the score of 21.
The American Gold Eagle is an आधिकारिक सुनहरा bullion सिक्का of the United States.
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985, it was पहला released by the संयुक्त States Mint in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of योग कि बिक्रम choudhury synthesized इससे परंपरागत hatha योग techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga वर्ग चलाएं लिये 90 मिनट्स और consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, हास्य और rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101.
Massey has received many awards and nomination including a Young Artist Award and Emmy पुरस्कार nominations.
He is also known for appearing in अनेक commercials in the जल्दी 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon made of बेदाग स्टील.
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring यंत्र, as खूब as a ईकाई of मापन of volume in some countries and customs.
a फर्न is कोई एक or अधिक of a समूह of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, they have जाइलम और फ्लोएम ( making them vascular plants ).
They have तना, पत्ते, और roots like other vascular plants.
ferns reproduce via बीजाणुओं और have neither seeds nor flowers.
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as defined here ( भी पुकारा monilophytes ) शामिल horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns और a few अन्य बीजरहित vascular plants ( see classification section below ).
Ferns first appear in the चट्टान रिकार्ड 360 लाख सालो पहले in the carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the वर्तमान परिवारों और प्रजाति किया नहीं appear जबतक roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are not of major economic importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as शोभायमान पौधे, लिये remediating contaminated soils, और have महरूम the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air.
Some are significant weeds.
वे भी खेल a role in mythology, medicine, and art.
Flat roofs in Israel
चपटा छत in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering लिये a भवन.
In contrast to the more sloped रूप of छत, a चपटा छत is horizontal or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of ढलान increases, so the पिच is कहा to बढ़ाएँ ).
Any sheet of material used to कवर a चपटा or low-pitched छत is प्रायः ज्ञात as a झिल्ली and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials that cover चपटा roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely बंद the किनारे of a छत, हालांकि gutter प्रणालियों हैं of लाभ in keeping दोनो दीवारें and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the मैदान, or बेहतर, into a specially made soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area.
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool, usually for aesthetic उद्देश्य, or लिये rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs exist all over the world और प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल रै इसके अपना परंपरा or preference for materials used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and जमने is असंभावित to occur, अनेक चपटा roofs हैं बस निर्मित of चिनाई or कंक्रीट और this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available.
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak, or where water soaked into the brickwork could फ्रीज to बर्फ और यूँ सीसे to 'blowing ' ( तोड़कर up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable.
Traditionally most flat roofs in the पश्चिमी संसार मेक उपयोग of तारकोल or अधिक प्रायः तारकोल paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat, UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering और degradation.
Roof decking is usually of plywood, chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented strand फलक, भी ज्ञात as स्टर्लिंग board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid, heated in a तारकोल केतली, or as चादरें of तारकोल impregnated 'paper ' चिपके bas और sealed साथ at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events कारण the बजरी to be स्थानांतरित or removed इससे the तारकोल or tarpaper waterproofing, यूँ exposing it to मौसम और सूर्य whereupon cracking और blistering occurs over समय और आखिरकार water gets in.
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre सामग्री soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper सतहों जहाँ वे वृद्धि खड़ा इससे the छत ऐसे as on मुंडेर दीवारें or upstands, tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship और प्रशिक्षण of those applying it to produce more or less successful results.
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them, however the cost of आधुनिक झिल्लियों ऐसे as epdm रै आइये bas over हाल सालो to मेक उन्हें अधिक और अधिक सस्ती.
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing जागरूकता of उनके प्रदर्शन और availability.
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then क्षति प्रायः goes unnoticed लिये long अवधि of समय दौरान जिससे जल penetrates और soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it.
This can lead to expensive क्षति इससे the दुर्गन्ध जिससे प्रायः develops and if left can weaken the roof structure.
There हैं भी विभिन्न स्वास्थ्य risks to लोगों और पशु श्वास the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point.
एक प्रॉब्लम साथ maintaining चपटा roofs is कि if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen.
Thus it is not आसान to देखिए जहाँ it is leaking in order to repair it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क which contains data.
The name is an acronym जिससे स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी ``.
Computers can read CD-ROMs, but can नहीं लिखें on उन्हें.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software, including video games and multimedia applications, though any data can be भंडारित ( up to the क्षमता सीमा of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data और ऑडियो साथ the latter capable of being played on a CD player, while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप, the पीला किताब, created by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the स्वरूप to hold any form of data.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 जुलाई 1965 ), कलम नाम J. K. रोलिंग, is a British novelist, best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series.
The Potter किताबे have gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान, जीती multiple awards, and sold more than 400 million copies.
They have become the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in इतिहास, और been the basis for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history.
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining रचनात्मक कंट्रोल by सेवारत as a निर्माता on the फाइनल instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the विचार for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother, divorce from her पहला husband और गरीबी जबतक रोलिंग समाप्त the पहला अनोखा in the श्रेणी, हैरी Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as खूब as 3 पूरक to the श्रेणी.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy अनोखा aimed at वयस्क readership, entitled The Casual Vacancy.
Rowling has कहा वो is फिलहाल working on दो books—one aimed लिये वयस्कों, the other for children younger than the Harry Potter audience, and she expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling has led a `` rags to अमीरी `` जीवन स्टोरी, in जिससे वो progressed इससे जीना on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire status within five years.
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling लेखक चूंकि records began, with sales in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 million ), रैंकिंग उसके as the बारहवीं richest स्त्री in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007, and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for its 2007 व्यक्ति of the साल, noting the सोशल, moral, और राजनैतिक प्रेरणा वो रै दिए her fans.
In October 2010, Rowling was named the `` सबसे influential स्त्री in ब्रिटेन '' by अग्रणी magazine editors.
She has become a notable philanthropist, supporting such charities as कॉमिक राहत, एक जनक परिवारों, अनेक काठिन्य समाज of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ).
auburndale is a नगर in polk County, Florida, United States.
The population थी 11,032 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the u.s जनसांख्यिकी estimates of 2005, the नगर had a population of 12,381.
It is part of the lakeland – शीत हेवन Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as देखी इससे कक्षा दौरान expedition 7 of the International Space Station.
The eye, eyewall, और surrounding rainbands, विशेषताएँ of tropical cyclones, are clearly visible in this view from space.
A tropical cyclone is a storm प्रणाली characterized by a low-pressure बीच घिरी by a सर्पिल arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain.
तीव्र cyclones strengthen जब जल काफूर इससे the समंदर is released as the saturated air rises, resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a different ऊष्मा यांत्रिकी than अन्य cyclonic windstorms ऐसे as nor'easters, European windstorms, and polar lows.
The characteristic that separates तीव्र cyclones इससे अन्य cyclonic प्रणालियों is कि at कोई ऊँचाई in the माहौल, the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems.
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the भौगोलिक उत्पत्ति of ये प्रणालियों, जिससे प्रायः रूप in तीव्र regions of the globe, and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such तूफ़ान ' cyclonic प्रकृति, साथ counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the उत्तरी Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere.
The opposite दिशा of the हवा प्रवाह is a परिणाम of the Coriolis force.
Depending on its location and strength, a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), typhoon ( ), tropical storm, cyclonic storm, tropical अवसाद, और बस चक्रवात.
While tropical cyclones can उपज अत्यधिक शक्तिशाली winds and torrential rain, they are also able to produce high waves, damaging storm surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over large bodies of warm water, and lose their strength if they move over land due to increased सतह घर्षण और घाटा of the warm ocean as an energy source.
This is क्यों तटीय regions can प्राप्त significant क्षति from a tropical cyclone, while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can उपज significant बाढ़ अंतर्देशीय, और storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to from the coastline.
Although their effects on इंसान populations can be विनाशकारी, तीव्र cyclones can relieve drought conditions.
They also carry heat energy away from the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध और हस्तांतरण it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes, which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism.
As a परिणाम, तीव्र cyclones सहायता to maintain संतुलन in the Earth 's troposphere, and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop when the वायुमंडलीय शर्तें around a कमजोर disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable.
The background environment is modulated by climatological चक्र और पैटर्न ऐसे as the madden-julian दोलन, El Niño-Southern Oscillation, and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation.
Others form when other types of cyclones acquire तीव्र विशेषताएँ.
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, और can भी develop an eye.
On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical चक्रवात makes landfall, the प्रणाली weakens और आखिरकार dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of ये प्रणालियों साथ वर्तमान प्रौद्योगिकी.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; December 9, 1916 ) is an American stage and film कर्ता, फिल्मी निर्माता और लेखक.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ), The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ), Lust for Life ( 1956 ), Paths of Glory ( 1957 ), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral ( 1957 ), The Vikings ( 1958 ), Spartacus ( 1960 ), Lonely हैं the वीर ( 1962 ), सात दिनों in may ( 1964 ), the नायक of telemark ( 1965 ) और मुश्किल यारों ( 1986 ).
He is No.17 on the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's सूची of the महानतम male American screen legends of all time, making him the highest-ranked living person on the list.
In 1996, he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral फ़ोर्स in the गति चित्र जातियाँ. ''
he is एक of the पिछला surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` golden age ''.
Robert क्लार्क `` bob '' seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist, he performed और अंकित as bob seger और the पिछला सुना और bob seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and जारी to नीयत लिये broader कामयाबी साथ other various bands.
In 1973, he put together The Silver Bullet Band, a group of Detroit-area musicians, with whom he became most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet, recorded live साथ the चांदी गोली बैंड in 1975 at cobo हॉल in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he हासिल a नेशनल breakout with the studio album Night Moves.
On his studio albums, he also worked extensively साथ the alabama-based मांसपेशी shoals लय खण्ड, which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots rocker with a classic raspy, shouting आवाज़, seger लिखा और अंकित गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम, महिलाओं, blue-collar विषयवस्तु and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has recorded many hits, including `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the Page, '' `` We 've Got Tonight, '' `` Against the Wind, '' and Shakedown that was written for बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop ii और `` जैसे a चट्टान, '' और भी co-wrote the ईगल्स ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock and Roll `` was named one of the गीतों of the सदी in 2001.
With a career spanning five दशकों, seger continues to perform and record today.
Seger was inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in yorba लिंडा, California.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to practice law.
He and उसके बीवी, पैट निक्सन, स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to work for the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान World War II.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican पार्टी अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 चुनाव.
Nixon served लिये आठ सालो as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again for the प्रेसिडेंसी और थी निर्वाचित.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations, और he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic मिसाइल सन्धि साथ the Soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, उसके प्रशासन generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ, imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11, he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस exploration.
He was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his राजनैतिक support, और on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially received a pardon जारी by उसके successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on April 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
{ { Infobox सीनेटर
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused कड़वा contention between अध्यक्ष Grant and Sen. Sumner.
ब्रैडी 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American imperialism in the caribbean और fearful कि annexation होता सीसे to the conquest of the neighboring ब्लैक republic of Haiti, became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty, and that men close to the president shared in the corruption.
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Sumner initially withheld his राय on the सन्धि on जनवरी 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of राज्य, bancroft डेविस, कि u.s. Naval ships were being used to protect President Báez.
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted विरूद्ध annexation और at sen. sumner’s सुझाव and quite possibly to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session.
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in favor of annexation on कूच 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
In closed session, Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there होता be परेशानी साथ the विदेशी नागरिकों, noting the दीर्घकालिक विद्रोह कि took place on the island, and the risk that the independence of Haiti, recognized by the United States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the u.S. नेवी as a प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी a violation of International law and unconstitutional.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the सन्धि थी voted on by the सीनेट और विफल to लाभ the जरूरी 2/3 majority for treaty passage.
The following day, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, अहसास गद्दारी by sen. sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley, Ambassador to Britain.
By autumn, Sumner 's निजी दुश्मनी to the अध्यक्ष थी पब्लिक knowledge, and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned, rather than let Grant have his way.
The two men, friends until then, cooled into कड़वा दुश्मनों.
In December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely नाजुक वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct.
already, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, समर्थित by उसके सचिव of राज्य Hamilton Fish, had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act, blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury, and been a निरंतर harassing फ़ोर्स pushing पुनर्निर्माण नीतियों तेज़ than ग्रान्ट था महरूम willing to go.
ग्रान्ट resented Sumner 's superiority of manner, as well.
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible, the president is supposed to have said that he थी नहीं चकित : `` he did n't write it. ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased, sumner’s स्वास्थ्य began to decline.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4, 1871, Senators affiliated with President Grant, known as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to oust sen. sumner इससे the सीनेट विदेशी संबंध Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or पेशेवर आचार कि examines नैतिक सिद्धान्त और moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment.
It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is प्रासंगिक to the conduct of individuals और entire organizations.
कारोबार आचार रै दोनो normative and descriptive dimensions.
As a corporate practice और a करियर specialization, the field is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to understand कारोबार बर्ताव employ वर्णनात्मक methods.
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing बर्ताव साथ non-economic चिंताएं.
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, दोनो भीतर प्रमुख corporations and within academia.
For example, आज सबसे प्रमुख corporations प्रचार उनके प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.
Adam Smith said, `` People of the same trade seldom meet साथ, भी लिये merriment और diversion, लकिन the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices. ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point कारोबार बर्ताव in कया वे perceive to be beneficial directions.
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond सरकारी कंट्रोल.
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in जिससे वे operate त्वरित the विकास of formal ethics regimes.
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat, विद्युत, रसायन, घर्षण, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as सतही or पहला उपाधि ) or extend into the deeper स्किन लकिन do नहीं involve the पूरा मोटाई of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ).
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper ऊतकों, ऐसे as मांसपेशी or अस्थि can be घायल in जिससे case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree.
The treatment required depends on the गंभीरता of the बर्न.
Superficial burns संभवतः प्रबंधित साथ छोटी अधिक than simple pain killers while major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers.
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in low body temperature.
Partial मोटाई burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई साथ soap and water followed by dressings.
Blisters चाहिए typically be left unbroken.
Full thickness burns usually require सर्जिकल उपचार ऐसे as स्किन कलम और extensive burns प्रायः आवश्यकता large amount of intravenous fluids.
The सबसे आम जटिलताओं of burns are related to infection.
While large burns can be fatal, modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes, विशेषकर in children और यंग वयस्कों.
globally परिचय 11 लाख लोगों seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from burns.
In the United States, of those admitted to a बर्न बीच, लगभग 4 % die from their injuries.
The long term outcome is primarily सम्बन्धित to the आकार of बर्न and the age of the person effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, not including आर्कटिक और अंटार्कटिक regions
This video was taken by the क्रू of expedition 29 on board the ISS.
The pass starts इससे बस north-east of the द्वीप of Newfoundland over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa, over South Sudan.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic विभाजन.
साथ a कुल क्षेत्रफल of परिचय, it कवर लगभग 20 percent of the Earth 's surface and about 29 percent of its water surface area.
The first part of its नाम refers to एटलस of यूनानी mythology, making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas ''.
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in the histories of हिरोडोटस around 450 bc ( hdt. 1.202.4 ) : अटलांटिस थलैसा ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ).
The term ethiopic समंदर, निकला from Ethiopia, was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century.
Before Europeans discovered other oceans, the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters परे the जलसन्धि of जिब्राल्टर that we now know as the Atlantic.
The early यूनानियों believed इस समंदर to be a gigantic river encircling the world.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between यूरेशिया और अफ़्रीकी to the ईस्ट, और the Americas to the west.
As one घटक of the interconnected वैश्विक समंदर, it is कनेक्ट in the उत्तर to the आर्कटिक समंदर ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ), to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( Other definitions describe the अटलांटिक as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the North अटलांटिक समंदर और दक्षिण अटलांटिक Ocean.
Due to their long-term persistence, and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts और चेतावनियाँ, तीव्र cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones हैं दिए names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
The following are lists from जिससे ये तीव्र और उपोष्ण cyclone names are derived.
White light is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into the रंगों of the optical spectrum.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम कि is दृश्य to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
Electromagnetic radiation in this दायरा of wavelengths is पुकारा दृश्य light or simply light.
A ठेठ इंसान नजर होगा respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of आवृत्ति, इस corresponds to a बैंड in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the ग्रीन प्रदेश of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम ( see : luminosity function ).
The spectrum does not, however, contain all the रंगों कि the इंसान आँखें and brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or जामुनी विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as magenta, हैं अनुपस्थित, लिये उदाहरण, क्युकी वे can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths.
Colors containing तभी एक wavelength are also called pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window ``, the region of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An उदाहरण of इस घटना is that clean air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths, and so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is also called the visible window because it overlaps the इंसान दृश्य जवाब वर्णक्रम.
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision, as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long wavelength or दूर इन्फ्रारेड ( lwir or fir ) खिड़की हालांकि अन्य पशु may अनुभव उन्हें.
Many species can see लाइट साथ बारंबारता बाहर the `` visible spectrum, '' which is defined in terms of human vision.
Bees and many other insects can detect पराबैंगनी लाइट, जिससे helps उन्हें find nectar in flowers.
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to उनके रूप in पराबैंगनी light, rather than how colorful they appear to humans.
Birds, too, can see into the पराबैंगनी ( 300–400 nm ), और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many animals that can see into the पराबैंगनी दायरा, however, can नहीं देखिए रेड लाइट or any other reddish wavelengths.
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at परिचय 590nm, बस पहले the orange wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see some red wavelengths, लकिन नहीं as अनेक as इंसानो.
Zebras ( or ) are several प्रजाति of अफ़्रीकी equids ( घोड़ा परिवार ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes.
उनके धारियाँ आइये in अलग patterns, unique to each individual.
They are generally सोशल पशु that live in small harems to large herds.
Unlike their closest रिश्तेदारों, घोड़े और asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
There are three species of zebras : the plains zebra, the grévy 's जेब्रा और the mountain zebra.
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris, but Grévy 's zebra is the एकमात्र प्रजाति of subgenus dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an ass, to which it is closely related, while the पूर्व दो are more horse-like.
All three belong to the genus Equus, साथ साथ अन्य जीना equids.
The unique stripes of zebras make them एक of the पशु most familiar to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, वुडलैंड्स, thorny scrublands, mountains, and coastal hills.
However, various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on जेब्रा populations, in particular शिकार लिये खालें और आवास destruction.
Grévy 's zebra and the mountain जेब्रा हैं endangered.
While plains zebras are much more plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became विलुप्त in the लेट 19th सदी – हालांकि वहीँ is फिलहाल a योजना, पुकारा the quagga प्रोजेक्ट, that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back.
Barry White, born Barry Eugene Carter ( – ), थी an अमरीकी composer और singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image, White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra, crafting many enduring आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और डिस्को गीतों ऐसे as उसके दो biggest हिट्स, `` तुम 're the पहला, the Last, My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along with Isaac Hayes, White is considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the जल्दी 1970s.
During the course of his career in the music business, White achieved 106 सुनहरा एल्बम विश्वव्यापी, 41 of जिससे भी attained platinum status.
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles, with worldwide sales in excess of 100 लाख, according to आलोचकों ed होगन और Wade Kergan.
His influences included Rev. James Cleveland, Ray चार्ल्स, एरीथा फ्रैंकलिन प्लस motown artists The Supremes, The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye.
Angelina Jolie (, born Angelina Jolie वोइट ; जून 4, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी actress, film director, and screenwriter.
She has received an Academy Award, two स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और तीन सुनहरी Globe Awards, and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian कल्याणकारी, और is विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य साथ refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman, a शीर्षक लिये जिससे वो रै प्राप्त substantial media attention.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon वोइट in lookin ' to मिलेंगी आउट ( 1982 ), लकिन उसके फिल्मी करियर began in सच्चाई a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first leading role in a प्रमुख फिल्मी was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ), and won an Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the नाटक लड़की, बाधित ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ), और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
वो जारी उसके कार्रवाई स्टार करियर साथ mr. & mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ), which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress.
Jolie made उसके directorial डेब्यू साथ the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and बिली bob थॉर्नटन, जोली अभी lives with actor Brad Pitt, in a relationship notable for fervent media attention.
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children and three adopted children.
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered चट्टान in Jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic प्रक्रियाओं ऐसे as हवा or जल प्रवाह, और तब transported और deposited in अन्य स्थितियाँ.
While अपरदन is a प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम, इंसान क्रियाएँ have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally.
excessive अपरदन कल्याणकारी समस्याएं ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण, decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation, sedimentation of waterways, and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined, they are जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage, making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems.
Industrial agriculture, deforestation, roads, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human क्रियाएँ in लिहाज़ to उनके प्रभाव on stimulating erosion.
However, there are अनेक उपलब्धियाँ वैकल्पिक जमीन उपयोग practices कि can काटना or limit erosion, such as terrace -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
जर्सी shore is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे ran on MTV from December 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United States.
The श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of eight housemates spending their summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Season 2 followed the डाल escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach, with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
The fourth season, filmed in इटली, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The show returned for a पांचवां ऋतु, at seaside Heights on January 5, 2012.
the पांचवां ऋतु finale aired on March 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, एमटीवी पुष्टि कि the series would return for their sixth season.
On August 30, 2012, एमटीवी घोषित कि the श्रेणी होगा समाप्त बाद the sixth season, which premiered on October 4.
the श्रेणी finale aired on December 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette, '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes, and scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not residents of the area.
the श्रेणी garnered रिकार्ड दरजा लिये एमटीवी, making it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever.
The series ' cast have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into अमरीकी लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
The University of Chicago and the University of ओक्लाहोमा हैं among the शैक्षणिक संस्थानों that have had classes or conferences about the show.
In 2010, the cast of Jersey shore थी नामित on बारबरा walters ' 10 सबसे fascinating लोगों सूची, और the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in other countries, with two set in the संयुक्त किंगडम ; the खूब ज्ञात geordie Shore, set in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.
The अन्य is the घाटियों, the वेल्श समतुल्य, which is filmed and set in Cardiff.
The only अन्य आधिकारिक रीमेक of the दिखाएँ is gandía Shore, set in Gandía, Spain.
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित सब waters ( around आइलैंड्स or continental tracts ) and all U.S. Naval vessels.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign अधिकारों लिये exploring, exploiting, conserving, and managing its territory.
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to, and under the dominion of, the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी ( जिससे शामिल tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes.
The संयुक्त राज्य कुल territory शामिल a subset of political divisions.
the u.S. सरकारी is a सरकारी with delegated powers under the United States Constitution.
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the राज्य क्रमशः, or to the लोगों '' by the दसवाँ amendment.
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by जोनाथन mostow और अभिनीत अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर, उपनाम stahl, क्लेयर danes और kristanna Loken.
It is the दूसरी sequel to the Terminator ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill जॉन खुद as a चाइल्ड, it भेजना वापस another टर्मिनेटर, the t-x, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible.
This शामिल जॉन 's भविष्य wife, but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet.
John 's life is placed in danger when the t-x accidentally पाता him.
a cord of wood
The cord is a unit of measure of dry volume used in Canada और the संयुक्त राज्य to माप firewood and pulpwood.
A cord is the amount of लकडी कि, जब `` क्रमित और खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े are aligned, parallel, touching and compact ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile ऊँची, long, और गहन ; or कोई अन्य व्यवस्था of रैखिक माप that yields the same volume.
The name cord संभवतः आता इससे the उपयोग of a cord or string to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit handheld video game device developed and manufactured by निन्टेंडो.
It was released in Japan on, in North अमेरिका in, और in यूरोपीय on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line, and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the वही स्टाफ जो था designed the खेल & देखें श्रेणी as खूब as अनेक लोकप्रिय खेल for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 और 1998, in the रूप of खेल लड़के जेब, and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ), respectively.
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in, and it संयुक्त सुविधाएँ इससे दोनो the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली and Game & Watch.
It was originally bundled साथ the पहेली game Tetris.
As भाग of the चौथी पीढी of गेमिंग, the खेल Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
Despite these अन्य technologically श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the Game Boy was a tremendous success.
the खेल लड़के और इसके successor, the Game Boy Color, have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide.
Upon its release in the संयुक्त राज्य, it बेची इसके संपूर्ण शिपमेंट of one million units within weeks.
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower मैनहटन, नई यॉर्क नगर, संयुक्त राज्य, replacing an पहले complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site.
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers, which opened on April 4, 1973 और यहूद नष्ट in the सितंबर 11 हमले of 2001, along with 7 World Trade Center.
The other buildings in the जटिल यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले, and their ruins were eventually demolished.
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those मारे in the attacks.
, only one skyscraper has महरूम समाप्त ; the अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित to be समाप्त before 2020.
One World व्यापार बीच होगा be the सीसे भवन for the new complex, reaching more than 100 stories at its completion.
It became the tallest building in नई यॉर्क नगर on अप्रैल 30, 2012, और is expected to be finished by 2013.
A sixth tower is प्रतीक्षारत पुष्टि.
At the time of उनके पूर्णता, the असली 1 संसार व्यापार बीच ( the उत्तर मीनार ) और 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ), known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '', were the tallest buildings in the world.
The other इमारतें शामिल 3 wtc ( the Marriott World Trade Center ), 4 WTC, 5 WTC, 6 WTC, and 7 WTC.
सब of ये इमारतें यहूद निर्मित between 1975 and 1985.
The cost लिये the निर्माण थी $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ).
the जटिल थी स्तिथ in the दिल of नई यॉर्क नगर 's शहर financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space.
The World Trade Center अनुभवी a आग on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 and a robbery on, 1998.
In 1998, the Port प्राधिकार decided to privatize the संसार व्यापार बीच, पट्टे the इमारतें to a private company to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the जटिल, एक into प्रत्येक मीनार, in a समन्वित terrorist attack.
After burning for 56 minutes, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour बाद by the North Tower ( 1 ), with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling debris from the towers, combined with fires that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings, led to the partial or पूरा पतन of सब the अन्य इमारतें in the जटिल and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area.
The process of क्लीनअप और रिकवरी at the World Trade Center site took eight months.
over the following सालो, योजनाएँ for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form.
The पहला नई भवन at the site was 7 World Trade Center, which opened in.
The Lower मैनहटन विकास निगम ( lmdc ), established in to oversee the rebuilding process, organized competitions to select a site plan and memorial design.
Memory Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was चयनित as the निपुण योजना, लकिन इस गई through substantial changes in design.
The new World Trade Center complex will include One World Trade बीच, तीन अन्य high-rise दफ्तर मीनारें, और the नेशनल September 11 Memorial & Museum.
सैन जिबरील Mountains
San Bernardino kyu, साथ mt. सैन gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि and Big Bear Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain सीमाएँ of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, in the प्रशांत Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America.
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast सीमाएँ और झूठ between सांता बारबरा और सैन डिएगो काउंटी.
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation, बनाना उन्हें अनुप्रस्थ to the सामान्य north-south अभिविन्यास of सबसे of California 's coastal mountains.
Periodic तालिका साथ electron shells
An electron shell may be विचार of as an कक्षा followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus.
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 शेल '' ( or `` l शेल '' ), तब the `` 3 शेल '' ( or `` M shell '' ), and so on farther and farther from the nucleus.
The shell letters K, l, m,..., प्रयुक्त in the x-ray संकेतन, are alphabetical.
Each shell can contain only a fixed क्रमांक of electrons : the 1st शेल can थाम up to दो electrons, the 2nd शेल can hold up to eight electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an अणु 's electrons होगा generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons.
However, this is नहीं a सख्त आवश्यकता : अणु may have two or even three incomplete outer shells.
( See madelung नियम लिये more details. )
For an explanation of why electrons मौजूद in ये shells see electron configuration.
The electrons in the outermost occupied शेल ( or शेल ) determine the रासायनिक properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell.
Each shell consists of one or more subshells, और प्रत्येक subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals.
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; November 28, 1967 – फ़रवरी 8, 2007 ), known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith, was an American model, actress, and television personality.
Smith first gained लोकप्रियता in प्लेबॉय, बनने the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
She modeled लिये कपडे companies, including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped out of ऊँची स्कूल और was married in 1985.
Her अत्यधिक publicized दूसरी विवाह to आयल कारोबार mogul, J. हावर्ड मार्शल, 62 years her senior, resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money, which she denied.
Following Marshall 's death, Smith began a lengthy विधिक बैटल over a share of his estate.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of संघीय क्षेत्राधिकार, और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन अदालत प्राधिकार ( now called Stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a हॉलीवुड, फ्लोरिडा होटल रूम as a परिणाम of an overdose of नुस्खा drugs.
Within the final six months of her life, Smith थी the फ़ोकस of a नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज surrounding the मौत of her son, Daniel, and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is एक denomination of Japanese yen.
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट ``, और यहूद भी minted इससे 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when, due to the much उच्चतर मान of the येन, वे यहूद minted in gold ).
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water, with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the वापस is stamped साथ `` जापानी '' और the साल of समस्या, भी in kanji, separated by sprouts of a tree.
The three graphic elements of the coin represent कृषि और fisheries, the कुंजी तत्व of the जापानी first-sector economy.
Around a hole, वहीँ is a गियर कि represents उद्योग.
It is the only जापानी सिक्का in परिसंचरण to कमी अरबी numerals on either face.
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B, हिप हॉप, आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और नई जोकर swing.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins, rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' थामस, the समूह मिला unprecedented कामयाबी in the 1990s जबकि भी enduring a श्रेणी of spats साथ the law, each other, and the group 's record label.
Initially, TLC achieved वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh...
On the TLC Tip, which sold 6 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
However, it was their second album, CrazySexyCool, कि catapulted the समूह to superstar औकात.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group, and eventually बेची 23 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
Five years later, the group released their third album FanMail, जिससे became the समूह 's पहला एल्बम to डेब्यू at क्रमांक one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide.
The subsequent दौरे following fanmails रिलीज became the highest grossing tour of all time by a female band.
In 2002, Lisa `` बाएँ नजर '' lopes died in a car accident in Honduras.
Seven months later, T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D, which बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी, it प्रदर्शित unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
Billboard magazine क्रमित tlc as एक of the greatest musical trios.
Between 1992 and 2003, the band संचित टेन शीर्ष टेन singles, चार क्रमांक एक singles, four multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
At the समाप्त of 1999, tlc थी क्रमित as the seventh most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard.
In 2008, the group was inducted into the All समय hot 100 कलाकार हॉल of कीर्ति by the same magazine, at 56th place.
That year it was also listed as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years.
TLC has sold अधिक than 65 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी और वे हैं क्रमित as the दूसरी बेहतरीन selling female group of all time, and the best selling female R & B group of all time.
In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on vh1 's 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक, होने क्रमित the number one all girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड एडवेंचर फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics, it is आधारित on the स्टोरी टार्ज़न of the apes by एडगर Rice Burroughs, and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy, Bob Tzudiker, and Noni White, Tarzan features the voices of Tony goldwyn, minnie ड्राइवर, ग्लेन बंद, और रोजी o'donnell साथ Brian Blessed, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit पहले the डिज़्नी slump of the जल्दी 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of its release, its उत्पादन बजट of $ 130 लाख बना it the सबसे महंगी एनिमेटेड फिल्मी ever made, until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was also the first Disney animated feature to खोलें at # 1 चूंकि pocahontas.
इस थी the पिछला प्रमुख box office success of the Disney Renaissance.
Oil Platform P-51 बंद the ब्राज़ीलियाई coast is a semi-submersible platform.
Oil मंच mittelplate in the North sea
An आयल मंच, ( offshore मंच or colloquially आयल रिग ) is a विशाल ढांचा साथ सुविधाएं to drill wells, to extract and process oil and natural gas, and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing.
In many मामले, the मंच contains सुविधाएं to हाउस the workforce as well.
Depending on the circumstances, the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor, may consist of an कृत्रिम द्वीप, or may float.
Remote subsea wells may also be कनेक्ट to a मंच by प्रवाह lines and by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of one or अधिक subsea कुएं, or of एक or अधिक manifold केंद्रों लिये multiple wells.
Slaughter is the killing of पशु, प्रायः कि of domestic livestock for food.
The animals most commonly slaughtered लिये खाना हैं चौपायों, जल भैंस ( लिये बीफ और वील ), शीप, बकरियों ( लिये मेमने और मटन ), सूअर ( लिये pork ), horses ( for horse meat ), and fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The White House, the president 's official निवास और बीच of the administration
Under the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence and recognition.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to पुरस्कार an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष more than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, इस्तीफा, or हटाना इससे दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, the Vice President assumes the office.
The President must be at least 35 सालो of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those व्यक्तियों जो यहूद sworn into दफ्तर as अध्यक्ष following the ratification of the United States Constitution, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any Acting राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is गिने क्रमबद्धता as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as अध्यक्ष, चार died in दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the पहला अध्यक्ष, थी उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a unanimous vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into उसके चौथी पद in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than दो शर्तें, और a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting presidents after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners इससे मतदान यहूद repealed.
Warren हार्डिंग थी the पहला निर्वाचित after women gained voting rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़, बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the लोकप्रिय vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, और the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, बराक ओबामा, is the first president of African descent.
Several firearms with detachable suppressors, from top to bottom : An Uzi, An ar-15, a heckler & koch खासियत रणनीतिक, a beretta 92fs, और a sig मच्छर.
Bolt action rimfire राइफल साथ suppressor
AWM-F स्निपर राइफल साथ संलग्न suppressor.
A suppressor, sound suppressor, or sound moderator, is a device attached to or part of the बैरल of a firearm जिससे reduces the राशि of रव, और usually the amount of muzzle flash, generated by firing the weapon.
A suppressor can be प्रयुक्त दोनो साथ a firearm and with compressed air gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile, especially one moving faster than the speed of sound, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e. वृहद than 300 मीटर ) can lessen, or retard, the रपट at the moment of impact, and create the impression of silence near the target.
The noise heard near the muzzle as a प्रक्षेप्य पत्ते the barrel, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
Early suppressors were created around the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी by several inventors.
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim, Hiram Percy 's father, and the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ), is credited with inventing और selling the पहला commercially कामयाब models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave his device the trademarked नाम कहावत silencer.
The muffler for internal combustion engines थी विकसित in समानांतर साथ the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th सदी, using अनेक of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in फैली उपयोग, हालांकि it रै चूंकि गिरे आउट of एहसान साथ कुछ, विशेषकर among the firearms उद्योग, होने replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor, because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging.
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the historically पहले पद, silencer.
In U.S. law, the terms `` firearm मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous.
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States दफ्तर of रणनीतिक सेवाएं, जो favored the newly designed High Standard HDM.22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II.
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the पिस्टल लिये अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट at the White House.
According to OSS शोध मुख्य स्टेनली लोवेल, डोनोवन ( an बूढ़ा और विश्वसनीय friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
While Roosevelt finished his message, Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him, announced what he था किया और हात the धूम्रपान गन to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was also प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी oss on clandestine परिचालन in नाजी occupied यूरोपीय दौरान the दूसरी World War.
Beatrice `` Bea '' आर्थर ( may 13, 1922 – अप्रैल 25, 2009 ) was an American actress, comedienne, and singer whose career spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude, और as डोरोथी zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls, winning Emmy Awards for both roles.
A stage actress both before and after her television success, she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical लिये उसके प्रदर्शन as वीरा चार्ल्स in the असली डाल of mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series, produced by डिजिटल frontier और वितरित by asmik इक्का entertainment in संघ with Bandai Entertainment.
The film premiered in North अमेरिका by बंदाई entertainment on July 26, 2011, and in Australia on July 27, 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening.
It was released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22, 2011 लिये यूएसए, और दिसम्बर 1, 2011 लिये Japan.
इस फिल्मी थी भी released on DVD on November 22, 2011 ( 2D Version only ).
The film was additionally included with the प्लेस्टेशन 3 खेल, tekken संकर, और the निन्टेंडो 3DS title, Tekken 3D : Prime Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary neighborhood advocacy समूह, देखिए पड़ोस संघ.
In the United States, a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate डेवलपर लिये the purpose of विपणन, मैनेजिंग, और selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision.
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association, while allowing the developer to निकास वित्तीय और विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन, typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots.
Membership in the homeowners association by a आवासीय खरीदार is typically a कंडीशन of खरीदें ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it.
Most homeowner associations are incorporated, and are subject to state statutes कि govern non-profit corporations और homeowner एसोसिएशन.
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal, and mainly takes the form of कानून जिससे हैं असंगत इससे राज्य to राज्य.
Some states, such as Florida and California, have a large body of homeowner संघ विधि, और कुछ राज्य, ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स, have वस्तुतः no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a श्रेणी कि शामिल planned-unit developments of single-family homes, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
Since 1964, homeowner एसोसिएशन have become increasingly common in the USA.
The Community Associations Institute trade association अनुमानित कि hoas governed 24.8 लाख अमरीकी homes and 62 million residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea सुअर जिससे have महरूम विकसित चूंकि its domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in रूप और purpose, ranging इससे दिखाएँ breeds with long, flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science.
From ca. 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532, selective प्रजनन by स्वदेशी दक्षिण अमरीकी peoples resulted in अनेक varieties of domestic Guinea pigs, which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds.
Early andean breeds यहूद primarily रखा as agricultural stock for food, and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era.
With the export of गिनी सूअर to यूरोपीय in the 15th सदी, the लक्ष्य in प्रजनन shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets.
To this end, विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रजनन संगठन were founded by fanciers.
The American Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the अमरीकी खरगोश प्रजनक Association, is the governing body in the United States and Canada.
The British Cavy परिषद governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy परिषद ) और नई जीलैंड ( New Zealand Cavy Club ).
Each club publishes इसके अपना मानक of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century.
Though there हैं अनेक breeds of गिनी सुअर, तभी a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets.
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be सुखद पालतु regardless of कैसा खूब वे मिलें the नस्ल मानक of पूर्णता.
The short hair, Abyssinian, Peruvian and sheltie ( उर्फ silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे frequently seen as pets, and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs.
In addition to their standard form, nearly सब breeds आइये in a साटन variant.
Satins, due to उनके खोखला बाल shafts, possess coats of a special gloss and shine.
However, वहीँ is growing प्रमाण कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems, including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease.
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by कुछ cavy प्रजनक ' एसोसिएशन क्युकी of animal welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have some shared general मानकों : the सिर प्रोफ़ाइल चाहिए be rounded, with large eyes and large, smooth ears.
The body should be दमदार और of कॉम्पैक्ट build.
Coat colour should in सब विसंगतियाँ be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip.
These standards are best met by long established, commonly bred breeds, as उनके प्रजनक have था पर्याप्त time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities.
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely मिले by अन्य than the चिकना coated breeds, जिससे have had well established, separate breeding lines for different colours.
राज्य स्कूलों ( भी ज्ञात as पब्लिक स्कूलों or सरकारी स्कूलों ) generally refer to प्राथमिक or द्वितीयक स्कूलों mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for, in whole or in part, by taxation.
The term may also refer to संस्थानों of post-secondary शिक्षा वित्तपोषित, in whole or in part, and overseen by government.
The ribosome assembles polymeric प्रोटीन अणुओं जिनकी sequence is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules.
This is जरूरी by सब जीना cells and associated viruses.
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma, meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine, मिला भीतर सब जीना कोशिकाएं, कि serves as the प्राथमिक साईट of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
ribosomes कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules.
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit पढ़े the mrna, जबकि the विशाल subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is composed of one or अधिक ribosomal rna ( rrna ) molecules and a variety of proteins.
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many टाइम्स into मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) जंजीरों of a similar sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mrna कड़ी और उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट लिये determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein.
Amino acids are selected, collected और carried to the राइबोसोम by ट्रांसफ़र rna ( trna अणुओं ), जिससे डालें one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain.
the संलग्न अमीनो acids हैं then linked together by another part of the ribosome.
Once the protein is produced, it can तब 'fold ' to उपज a विशिष्ट functional three-dimensional structure.
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein.
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the छोटी subunit बांधता to the mrna पैटर्न, जबकि the larger subunit बांधता to the tRNA and the amino acids.
When a राइबोसोम finishes पढना an mRNA molecule, these two subunits split apart.
Ribosomes are ribozymes, क्युकी the catalytic peptidyl transferase कार्यकलाप कि कड़ी अमीनो acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
Ribosomes from जीवाणु, आर्किया और eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size, sequence, structure, and the ratio of protein to RNA.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes, जबकि leaving इंसान ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at one time, each `` reading '' इसके अनुक्रम और producing a सम्बन्धित प्रोटीन molecule.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble अनेक सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु, reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, ईसाई de duve, और जार्ज एमिल palade यहूद jointly awarded the नोबेल पुरस्कार in physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान, in 1974, for the discovery of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन, थामस A. steitz और एडीए E. yonath लिये determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
The सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the Calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that बदलें कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अन्य यौगिकों into glucose.
These प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further रासायनिक प्रक्रियाओं on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation, कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ, और ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this process occurs तभी जब लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ.
Plants do not carry आउट the calvin cycle by night.
They, instead, release sucrose into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके मंड reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation, c4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
In mathematics, a वर्गाकार क्रमांक or पूर्ण वर्गाकार is an पूर्णांक कि is the square of an integer ; in other words, it is the product of some integer with itself.
लिये उदाहरण, 9 is a वर्गाकार number, since it can be written as.
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is नहीं the उत्पाद, लकिन the समतुल्य घातांक, usually pronounced as `` squared ''.
The name वर्गाकार क्रमांक आता इससे the name of the shape ; see below.
Square संख्याएँ हैं non-negative.
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) क्रमांक is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक, is कि इसके वर्गाकार roots are again integers.
For example, = ±3, so 9 is a square number.
A positive integer that has no perfect square divisors मगर 1 is पुकारा square-free.
For a non-negative integer, the th square क्रमांक is, साथ होने the zeroth square.
The concept of square can be विस्तारित to कुछ अन्य number systems.
If rational numbers are included, then a square is the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers, और, conversely, the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
Starting साथ 1, वहीँ हैं वर्गाकार संख्याएँ up to और including, where the expression represents the floor of the number.
The Era of शुभ जज्बात चिह्नित a काल in the राजनैतिक इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य that reflected a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan विवादों between it और the प्रबल democratic-republican पार्टी during the First Party System.
President James मुनरो endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in बनाना his nominations, with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics.
the काल is so closely संबद्ध साथ मुनरो 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the समाप्त of the federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन, इस era भी marks the पहला उदाहरण of economic troubles in the growing United States.
Mirroring the अमरीकी प्रणाली प्रस्तावित by हेनरी मिट्टी, सुरक्षात्मक tariffs और the chartering of the दूसरी बैंको of the संयुक्त States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis.
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony because of the राजनैतिक turmoil, आर्थिक कारकों caused animosity between the North and South.
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the इतिहास of the era थी एक in जिससे the राजनैतिक माहौल थी strained और divisive, विशेषकर among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party.
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the Boston Federalist newspaper, Columbian Centinel, on July 12, 1817, following मुनरो 's विज़िट to बोस्टन, Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America.
Mariel Margaret `` मिया '' hamm ( born कूच 17, 1972 ) is a रिटायर्ड American professional soccer player.
hamm निभाई अनेक सालो as a आगे लिये the संयुक्त राज्य महिलाओं 's national soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 international goals, more than any other player, male or female, in the history of सॉकर और is the तीसरा सबसे capped मादा खिलाड़ी in सॉकर इतिहास पीछे kristine लिली और क्रिस्टी rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
Hamm was named the महिलाओं 's फीफा संसार खिलाड़ी of the साल the पहला दो टाइम्स कि पुरस्कार थी दिए ( in 2001 और 2002 ), and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of कीर्ति और टेक्सास खेल हॉल of कीर्ति.
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer और जीवन और appeared in the एचबीओ वृत्तचित्र हिम्मत to सपना : the स्टोरी of the u.S. Women 's Soccer Team.
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm, `` Perhaps the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण खिलाड़ी of the पिछला 15 सालो. ''
Hamm takes a कोने kick.
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison, New Jersey, representing the नई यॉर्क महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
The team competes in the Eastern Conference of Major लीग सॉकर ( MLS ).
It is one of the टेन चार्टर क्लब of mls, having competed in the league since its inception.
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), लकिन रै गए through several name changes.
The team was originally known as the New york/new जर्सी metrostars through 1997.
From the 1998 season through the 2005 ऋतु, the टोली थी known as the MetroStars.
On March 9, 2006, the team was बेची to रेड सांड gmbh, leading to the team 's current name.
They are the only original MLS मताधिकार नहीं to have जीती कोई significant ट्रॉफी ( सहित नियमित season, playoffs, and knockout competition ) since inception.
The team 's बेहतरीन परिणाम in the mls थी the MLS Cup final in 2008.
In the us खोलें कप, the metrostars पहुँचे तीन semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), before reaching their first final in 2003, losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On August 26, 2000, the Metros ' Clint Mathis नियत an mls रिकार्ड by स्कोरिंग पाँच लक्ष्य in a game against the Dallas Burn.
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese, Tim Howard, Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, Alexi Lalas, Clint Mathis, Jozy Altidore, Michael Bradley, Claudio Reyna, एडी पोप, रॉबर्टो donadoni, lothar matthäus, एडोल्फो वालेंसिया, youri djorkaeff, amado ग्वेरा, जुआन पाब्लो ángel, thierry Henry, Juninho Pernambucano, Jan Gunnar Solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also had well-known coaches, including Carlos Queiroz, Carlos Alberto parreira, बोरा milutinović, bob ब्राडली, mo johnston, ब्रूस एरिना और hans backe.
Confucianism, Taoism, और buddhism हैं एक, a पेंटिंग in the litang स्टाइल portraying three men laughing by a river stream, 12th century, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world, or in many countries, is difficult due to definitional मुद्दे as खूब as व्यावहारिक समस्याएं of enumeration.
To begin with, the religious beliefs, practices, and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by कोई माप ) प्रायः मिश्रण buddhism साथ अन्य परंपराओं सहित confucianism, the चाइनीज लोक religion, Daoism, Shinto, and Korean shamanism.
सबसे अनुसरणकर्ता of buddhism do नहीं belong to संरचित congregations, or observe a definite अनुष्ठान of adherence such as taking Refuge, making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners.
An additional challenge is the hostility of अनेक नेशनल सरकारें ( प्रायः कम्युनिस्ट ones ऐसे as चीन or उत्तर कोरियाई ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence, resulting in आधिकारिक योग कि may drastically underestimate the क्रमांक of religious practitioners in these countries.
Estimate of the विश्वव्यापी बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी दायरा इससे 350 लाख to over one billion, but cluster nearer to the first figure.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a फिगर of 397 million.
By प्रमुख शाखाओं, the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, including East Asian Buddhism, with no fewer than 185 लाख adherents, और संभवतः अनेक टाइम्स कि अनेक ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in चीन, दक्षिण कोरियाई, जापानी, ताईवान, सिंगापुर, and Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism, साथ no कम than 125 million adherents.
This is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया, Thailand, Laos, Sri Lanka, and Burma.
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism, साथ लगभग 20 million adherents.
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and मंगोलियाई regions, as खूब as in the हिमालय.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan, and various territories within what is now western China, Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g. Kalmykia, बुर्यातिया ), इण्डिया ( e.g. लद्दाख, सिक्किम ), और Nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
Vajrayana, also known as Tibetan Buddhism, is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism, but this is imprecise, as shingon और अन्य फ़ॉर्म of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra.
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka, Thailand, कंबोडिया, लाओस, बर्मा, भूटान, और मंगोल ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on कैसा एक calculates चाइनीज और अन्य ईस्ट एशियाई adherents, इस फिगर might expand to include several more countries.
In addition, Buddhism is the राज्य धर्म of कंबोडिया और भूटान, और receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka.
In northern India और नेपाल, the land where Buddhism was born, the religion severely declined during the first millennium.
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern इण्डिया, or to अन्य कारकों, remains controversial.
देखिए the आलेख Decline of Buddhism in India.
James Butler Hickok ( May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), better ज्ञात as जंगली विधेयक hickok, थी a folk hero of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter और स्काउट, साथ साथ उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a lawman, provided the basis for his fame, although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized.
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois, Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice, first working as a stagecoach driver, before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of कान्सास और नेब्रास्का.
He fought for the Union Army during the American सिविल युद्ध, और gained publicity बाद the युद्ध as a scout, marksman, actor, and professional gambler.
Between his law-enforcement कर्तव्य और जुए, जिससे easily overlapped, hickok was involved in several notable shootouts.
he थी शॉट और मारे जबकि playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood, Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity रोवर vaporizing चट्टान on Mars.
The rover उतरा on मंगल in August 2012.
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the सतह of the ग्रह मंगल बाद लैंडिंग.
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory, they can be directed to interesting features, they can place themselves in sunny positions to मौसम शीत महीने और वे can अग्रिम the ज्ञान of कैसा to perform बहुत remote robotic vehicle control.
There have been four successful robotically संचालित मंगल rovers.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed the मंगल pathfinder मिशन और इसके अभी निष्क्रिय sojourner rover.
It फिलहाल manages the मंगल खोजी रोवर मिशन 's क्रियाशील अवसर rover and inactive Spirit, and, as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission, the Curiosity rover.
A financial audit, or more accurately, an audit of financial statements, is the verification of the वित्तीय कथन of a विधिक एंटिटी, साथ a दृश्य to एक्स्प्रेस an ऑडिट राय.
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable परख, लकिन नहीं निरपेक्ष परख, that the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent परिक्षा of the वित्तीय कथन, जिससे increases the मान और विश्वसनीयता of the वित्तीय कथन उत्पादित by management, thus increase user confidence in the financial statement, reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements.
वित्तीय audits हैं typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting.
The financial audit is one of अनेक परख कृत्यों provided by हिसाब firms.
Many संगठन separately employ or hire आतंरिक auditors, जो do not attest to financial reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place limited रिलायंस on the कार्य of internal auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization, therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to छिपाते unscrupulous dealings.
internationally, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों on auditing ( isa ) जारी by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process.
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local विभिन्नता of the isa.
Dollar coins have been minted in the United राज्य in सुनहरा, चांदी, और base metal versions.
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ a फेस मान of एक डालर, हालांकि purists जिद कि a डालर is not silver unless it contains some of that metal.
Silver dollars, the first dollar coin समस्या, यहूद minted beginning in 1794.
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also महरूम उत्पादित by the United States.
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are often referred to as `` सुनहरी डॉलर ''.
In modern times, dollar coins have not been very लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त States.
despite प्रयत्न by the सरकारी to promote their use, most Americans currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins.
In सीधा और स्तर उड़ान लिफ्ट ( L ) equals weight ( W ).
In a banked turn of 60°, लिफ्ट बराबरी दोगुना the वज़न ( L=2W ).
The पायलट अनुभवों 2g and a doubled weight.
The steeper the बैंको, the वृहद the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate इससे शून्य to in 0.86 सेकेंड.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary मामला the pythagorean प्रमेय yields a g फ़ोर्स of 5.4 g.
g-force ( with g इससे गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a पद लिये accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
It is not a force, प्रति se, लकिन a फ़ोर्स per unit mass.
Since such a force is आभास as a वज़न, कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न per unit mass '' ( see the synonym specific weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass, और ( सहेजें लिये निश्चित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ोर्स प्रभाव ) is the कारण of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's acceleration in relation to free-fall.
This त्वरण अनुभवी by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move.
The accelerations that are not उत्पादित by गम्भीरता हैं termed proper accelerations, and it is only these that are measured in g-force units.
They cause तनावों और strains on objects.
Because of ये strains, large g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting alone does not उपज a g-force, even though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity.
Thus, the standard गुरुत्वाकर्षक त्वरण at the धरती 's सतह produces g-force only indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted in the upward दिशा by the मैदान, keeping the ऑब्जेक्ट from going into free-fall.
The upward फ़ोर्स इससे the मैदान ensures कि an ऑब्जेक्ट at बाकी on the धरती 's सतह is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition, which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center.
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only, महसूस no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to शुभ सन्निकटन ) शर्तें अंदर a spacecraft in धरती कक्षा.
These are उदाहरण of निर्देशांक त्वरण ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight.
the अनुभव of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is उत्पादित, is synonymous with weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in directions at right angles to them, proper and coordinate accelerations are the same, and any coordinate त्वरण जरूर be उत्पादित by a सम्बन्धित g-force acceleration.
An example here is a rocket in free space, in which simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines, and उपज g-forces on the प्रक्षेपास्त्र और यात्री.
An augur पकड़कर a lituus, the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and आधिकारिक in the शास्त्रीय संसार, विशेषकर ancient Rome and Etruria.
His main role थी to interpret the होगा of the देवताओं by अध्ययन the उड़ान of पक्षियों : whether वे हैं flying in groups or alone, what noises they make as they fly, direction of flight and what kind of birds they are.
This was ज्ञात as `` लेने the auspices. ''
The ceremony and फलन of the augur थी सेंट्रल to कोई प्रमुख undertaking in रोमन society—public or private—including matters of war, commerce, and religion.
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` जो करता नहीं जान कि इस नगर थी संस्थापित तभी बाद लेने the auspices, that everything in war and in peace, at home and abroad, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington पहाड़ियाँ is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan.
it is the दूसरी largest नगर in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan.
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census.
it is भाग of the upscale northwestern उपनगरों of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor.
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the संयुक्त राज्य, as खूब as in the राज्य of मिशिगन.
In 2010, the क्षेत्रफल क्रमित as the 30th safest city in America.
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses, farmington और farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः विचार of as the same community.
Features of the community include a recently संवर शहर, boutiques, a विंटेज सिनेमा, numerous रेस्तरां, exotic car dealerships, art galleries, and public parks including Heritage Park.
वहीँ हैं अनेक ऐतिहासिक sites including the Longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion.
Both cities are served by farmington पब्लिक स्कूलों.
Farmington Hills serves as a major business center लिये the वृहद डेट्रॉयट क्षेत्रफल.
present-day छाप of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town मुहर ( मेट्रिक्स ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax, clay, paper, or some other medium, including an embossment on paper, and is भी the छाप यूँ made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a दस्तावेज़, a wrapper लिये एक ऐसे as a आधुनिक लिफाफा, or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects.
The sealing प्रक्रम is essentially कि of a सांचे, साथ the फाइनल चित्र represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर जहाँ the ऊँची भाग of the मेट्रिक्स टच, the मुहर is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another color than the paper.
लिये विधिक उद्देश्य, the परिभाषा of a मुहर may be extended to include rubber stamps, or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the United States, the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ), जिससे may be प्रयुक्त in a किस्में of contexts सहित architectural जमावट, on flags, or on official letterheads.
Thus, for example, the Great Seal of the संयुक्त राज्य, among अन्य उपयोग, appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags.
in यूरोपीय, हालांकि coats of बाहें और heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals, the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
the पढ़ाई of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog Day ( पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी : grundsaudaag, murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy जब a groundhog emerges इससे इसके burrow on इस दिन, तब वसन्त will come early ; if it is sunny, the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow, and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks.
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to देखें the groundhog उभरते इससे इसके burrow.
In southeastern पेन्सिलवेनिया, groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the अवकाश साथ fersommlinge, social events in which food is served, speeches are made, and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी dialect is the तभी भाषा बोला at the इवेंट, और those जो बोलो अंग्रेज़ी pay a penalty, usually in the form of a nickel, dime, or quarter per word spoken, with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
The largest groundhog दिन जश्न is आयोजित in punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular tradition, received फैली ध्यान as a परिणाम of the 1993 फिल्मी groundhog दिन, जिससे थी नियत in punxsutawney, PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock, IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil.
High resolution image of tampa खाड़ी region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ), with warm and humid summers with बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों साथ जमने temperatures occurring प्रत्येक 2–3 years.
The area experiences a significant summer wet ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the सालाना वर्षण जलप्रपात in the months of June through September.
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10, जिससे is परिचय the उत्तरी सीमा of जहाँ नारियल palms and royal palms can be grown.
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 °f ( 18 और 35 °c ) साल round.
Though known for hot summers, Tampa 's official high has never पहुँचे 100 °f ( 38 °c ) – the नगर 's all-time रिकार्ड तापमान is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. पीटर्सबर्ग 's all-time रिकार्ड ऊँची is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County झूठ on a प्रायद्वीप between tampa खाड़ी और the गल्फ of मैक्सिको, and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay.
This proximity to large bodies of जल दोनो नरमपंथियों temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere.
In general, the local communities farthest from the coast have larger तापमान सीमाएँ, दोनो दौरान a सिंगल day and throughout the seasons of the year.
A आरेख of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण.
The `` electromagnetic वर्णक्रम '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ, और is बजाय the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम is अनन्त and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications और निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण लिये अधिक अनुप्रयोग ).
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932, as उसके घरेलू policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy लोकप्रिय सोंग `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान theme, FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with British प्रधान मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल और सोवियत सामान्य Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), रिकवरी ( आर्थिक विकास ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, लकिन तब relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented उसके पैकिंग the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on business were ended परिचय 1975–85, मगर लिये the विनियमन of वॉल Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit बीमे निगम, जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933, और सोशल सुरक्षा, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong राजनयिक और वित्तीय support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, जबकि बाकी officially न्यूट्रल.
His goal was to मेक अमेरिका the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` which would supply munitions to the Allies.
In कूच 1941, रूज़वेल्ट, with Congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी अमरीकी civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended, और the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
रूज़वेल्ट वर्चस्व the अमरीकी राजनैतिक झाँकी नहीं only during the twelve years of his presidency, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that निर्मित the पांचवां पार्टी System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition संयुक्त मजदूर संघ, बिग नगर मशीने, श्वेत ethnics, अफ़्रीकी Americans and rural white Southerners.
He also influenced the later creation of the United राष्ट्र और bretton वुड्स.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष three U.S. Presidents, along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a छोटी बाएँ of बीच. ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics कि is प्रयुक्त to refer to a कमेटी बना up of सदस्यों of both chambers of a bicameral legislature.
In other contexts, it refers to a committee with members from more than one organization.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United राज्य संविधान, it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to परमिट, prohibit, or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक अनुक्रम अपराधों, a अपराधों कि disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time considered to be a vagrancy अपराधों.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Only 8 counties currently contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ), Washoe County ( which contains Reno ), कार्सन नगर, डगलस काउंटी, और lincoln County.
The अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय prostitution, but some of these counties currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal under Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other देशों, वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames लिये the ध्वज शामिल the `` सितारों and Stripes '', `` Old Glory ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ territories.
The states and territories हैं further subdivided into districts and so on.
congressional जिले लिये the 113th United States Congress
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional जिले, starting in 2013, as a result of the 2010 census.
2000 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts, from 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional districts for प्रतिनिधित्व in the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
the मात्रा ( apportionment ) और सीमाएँ ( redistricting ) of जिले are determined after each census, although in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This सूची शामिल the 435 वर्तमान और over 200 obsolete districts.
For example, since the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, नेब्रास्का has had three districts, but it used to have as many as six.
In the first दशक of the twenty-first सदी, टेक्सास था 32 districts, but has since added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census.
Other states have lost districts since the number of congressional सीटे रै महरूम नियत at 435 by statute.
भी शामिल यहाँ हैं non-voting delegations : six current and four obsolete.
The सीमाएँ of जिले प्रायः shift with each redistricting.
Over time, the region और जनसांख्यिकी represented in a ज़िला can change substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the same boundaries जबकि बदलना उनके ज़िला संख्याएँ.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, record producer, actress, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola, कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), म्यूज़िक Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, spent a record sixteen सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings और धीरे traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at जिससे समय कैरी था अलग इससे mottola.
Carey बाएँ कोलंबिया in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized लिये कठोर थकावट.
Following the film 's ग़रीब रिसेप्शन, वो थी खरीदा आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग contract for $ 50 million, which led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, and after an unsuccessful काल, लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक चार्ट साथ the emancipation of मिमी ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` we belong साथ `` became her most successful single of the 2000s, and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over दो दशकों, कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक Awards.
Carey was also named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in 2000.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America, she is the तीसरा best-selling मादा कलाकार in the संयुक्त राज्य, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य, अधिक than कोई अन्य solo artist.
In 2012, कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has won five Grammy Awards, 17 संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, और 31 बिलबोर्ड Music Awards.
referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the Guinness World Records, she is famed for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
ये निलंबित अणु are also known as aerosols.
Clouds in धरती 's माहौल हैं पढ़ाई in the cloud physics branch of meteorology.
Two processes, possibly acting together, can lead to air becoming संतृप्त ; कूलिंग the एयर or adding जल वाष्प to the air.
In general, वर्षण होगा पतन to the सतह ; an exception is virga, which evaporates before reaching the surface.
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward विकास जैसे कपासी, appear in non-convective परतदार चादरें such as stratus, or take the form of thin fibrous wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these basic forms or to बताएँ मध्य or ऊँची ऊँचाई सीमाएँ.
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to भारी वर्षण, alto- लिये मध्य बादल, और cirro- लिये ऊँची बादल ; the latter दो of जिससे may be of simple or moderately complex structure.
Whether or not a cloud is low, middle, or ऊँची स्तर depends on कैसा दूर ऊपर the ground its base forms.
Cloud types with significant लंबवत extent can रूप in the low or middle altitude ranges depending on the moisture content of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the लोकप्रिय अनुकूलन of ल्यूक हावर्ड 's बादल categorization प्रणाली, which began to spread in popularity during December 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled अवलोकन समय आधारित on the ऊँचाई और शारीरिक appearance of the clouds.
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's troposphere, वहीँ हैं अवसरों जब बादल in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
These three main layers of the atmosphere जहाँ बादल may be देखी हैं collectively known as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere, which साथ मेक up the heterosphere कि marks the परिवर्तन to outer space.
Clouds have been observed on other planets और moons भीतर the सौर प्रणाली, लकिन, due to उनके अलग तापमान विशेषताएँ, they are composed of other substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
Galveston County is a काउंटी स्तिथ in the U.S. state of Texas within the Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area.
As of the 2010 census, the जनसांख्यिकी थी 291,309.
Its county seat is galveston.
League City is the largest city in Galveston County in terms of population ; URL_http between 2000 और 2005 it surpassed galveston as the काउंटी 's largest नगर.
galveston काउंटी थी founded in 1838.
nassau
freeport, Bahamas
This is a list of cities in the बहामा.
The following table lists the city or town name, the geographic coordinates, the population as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी, an अनुमान of the population as of 2009, and the island name.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big नौ सम्मेलन, is the oldest प्रभाग i college athletic conference in the United States.
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their respective states, well-regarded academically, और साथ अपेक्षाकृत विशाल छात्र नामांकन ) are located primarily in the Midwest, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ), formerly known as प्रभाग i-a, the उच्चतम स्तर of ncaa प्रतियोगिता in that sport.
Member schools of the बिग टेन ( or, in दो मामले, उनके जनक विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों ) भी हैं सदस्यों of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the Big Ten actually consists of 12 स्कूलों, following the जोड of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will expand to 14 members with the additions of the University of मेरीलैंड, कॉलेज पार्क और rutgers, the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई जर्सी.
It is not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference, which रै तभी टेन स्कूलों और represents a अलग region of the country.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a घट स्टिल आसवन प्रक्रम at a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी, with malted barley as the only grain ingredient.
As with any Scotch whisky, a सिंगल malt स्कॉच जरूर be आसुत in स्कॉटलैंड और matured in oak casks in Scotland for at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ).
`` Malt '' indicates that the व्हिस्की is आसुत from a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of grains can be malted ( for example, barley, rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने जिससे can be malted ) ; however, in the मामला of सिंगल malt Scotch, barley is always the only grain used.
`` Single '' indicates that all the malts in the बोतल आइये इससे a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी.
Bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple distilleries हैं पुकारा `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch व्हिस्की regulations 2009 ( swr 2009 ), the शब्द `` blended '' तभी appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky, but this is no longer the case.
Under the शब्दावली स्थापित by the swr 2009, a `` blended malt स्कॉच व्हिस्की '' is a मिश्रण of सिंगल malt स्कॉच whiskies, not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the word `` malt ''.
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a bottle of सिंगल malt स्कॉच is the क्रमांक of सालो the व्हिस्की spent maturing in cask.
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the age बयान reflects the आयु of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres, लिये उदाहरण, the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड..., in a बहुत दिलचस्प वितरण of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to more traditional musical textures, sound mass composition `` minimizes the महत्व of व्यक्तिगत pitches in वरीयता लिये बनावट, timbre, and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact. ''
Developed from the modernist टोन क्लस्टर और स्प्रेड to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
तकनीकों जिससे may बनाएँ or be प्रयुक्त साथ ध्वनि द्रव्यमान शामिल विस्तारित तकनीकों ऐसे as muted brass or strings, flutter tonguing, wide vibrato, extreme ranges, and glissandos.
Composers and works include बारबरा kolb, pauline oliveros ' ध्वनि पैटर्न लिये कोरस ( 1961 ), norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ), and Nancy Van de Vate.
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in एहसान of a सामूहिक timbre through the उपयोग of गायन and instrumental clusters, choral speech, narrator, and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where अराजकता is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A later example is the third गति of रुथ क्रॉफर्ड seeger 's स्ट्रिंग quartet 1931 ( nonesuch h-71280 ) जबकि अधिक recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example.
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard Varèse often carefully scored individual instrumental भाग so कि वे होता फ्यूज into एक ensemble timbre or ध्वनि द्रव्यमान ( एरिक्सन 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples include यूरोपीय `` textural '' रचनाएं of the fifties और sixties ऐसे as krzysztof penderecki 's threnody to the पीड़ितों of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki, karel husa, witold lutosławski, kazimierz Serocki, and Steven Stucky.
Sound mass techniques भी appear in the म्यूज़िक of जार्ज Crumb ( Anon. n.d. ).
विद्यार्थी उपस्थित a लेक्चर on linear algebra at the Helsinki University of Technology
Pupils in rural सूडान, 2002
A छात्र is a learner, or किसी जो attends an educational institution.
In some nations, the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend university, while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in English ( or an समतुल्य in अन्य भाषाएं ), हालांकि in the संयुक्त राज्य a व्यक्ति नामांकित in ग्रेड k–12 is often called a student.
In its widest use, student is प्रयुक्त लिये anyone जो is learning.
Australia is a महाद्वीप comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया, तस्मानिया, नई गिनी, seram, possibly Timor, and neighbouring islands.
The continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names sahul, australinea or meganesia, to distinguish it from the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the seven traditional continents in the अंग्रेज़ी conception.
New Zealand is not part of the महाद्वीप of ऑस्ट्रेलिया, लकिन of the separate, submerged continent of Zealandia.
zealandia और ऑस्ट्रेलिया हैं दोनो भाग of the wider regions known as Australasia and Oceania.
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas which divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई गिनी, और बास जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया और तस्मानिया.
When समुद्र स्तर यहूद निम्नतर दौरान the pleistocene बर्फ आयु, सहित the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC, they were connected by dry land.
During the past ten thousand years, rising sea levels overflowed the lowlands and separated the continent into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid मेनलैंड और the दो mountainous आइलैंड्स of नई Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf, so the now-separate आइलैंड्स हैं माना part of the continent.
Due to the spread of animals, fungi and plants across the single Pleistocene landmass the पृथक lands have a सम्बन्धित biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as बिग as the संसार 's second-smallest country, Monaco.
Historically its reservoirs were महत्वपूर्ण components of the city 's water supply.
Environmental issues in New York City are affected by the city 's size, घनत्व, abundant पब्लिक परिवहन अवसंरचना, और स्थान at the mouth of the Hudson River.
New York 's population density has पर्यावरणीय फायदे and cons.
It facilitates the उच्चतम mass transit use in the United States, but also concentrates pollution.
Gasoline खपत in the नगर is at the रेट the नेशनल औसत थी in the 1920s, और ग्रीनहाउस gas emissions are a fraction of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons per person per year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 metric tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
New York City खाते लिये तभी 1 % of संयुक्त States greenhouse gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population.
in सितंबर 2012, नई यॉर्क थी नामित the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the पूंजी of और the सबसे populous नगर in the U.S. state of Georgia, with an estimated 2011 population of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the अटलांटा महानगर क्षेत्रफल, घर to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United States.
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton काउंटी, और a छोटी portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the चौराहे of दो रेलरोड लाइनों, और the नगर rose from the ashes of the Civil War to become a national center of commerce.
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement, during which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' for the प्रगतिशील दृश्य of इसके नागरिकों और नेताओ, अटलांटा attained अंतरराष्ट्रीय prominence.
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, via राजमार्ग, रेलरोड, और एयर, साथ hartsfield–jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998.
अटलांटा is माना an `` अल्फा ( - ) संसार नगर, '' और, साथ a gross domestic product of US $ 270 billion, Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse, dominant sectors include logistics, professional and business services, media परिचालन, सरकारी प्रशासन, और उच्चतर शिक्षा.
Topographically, Atlanta is marked by rolling hills and घना पेड़ कवरेज.
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods, initially spurred by the 1996 ओलंपिक, रै intensified in the 21st सदी, altering the city 's demographics, politics, and culture.
A 1947 प्रचार कॉमिक किताब प्रकाशित by the catechetical गिल्ड Educational Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making आरोपों of disloyalty, subversion, or treason without proper regard for evidence.
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative तकनीकों, विशेषकर in अनुक्रम to सीमित dissent or राजनैतिक criticism. ''
The term has its origins in the काल in the संयुक्त राज्य ज्ञात as the दूसरी रेड scare, स्थायी roughly इससे 1950 to 1956 और characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents.
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s. सीनेटर जोसेफ मैकार्थी of विस्कॉन्सिन, `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless, unsubstantiated आरोपों, as खूब as demagogic हमले on the अक्षर or patriotism of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers और became the विषय of आक्रामक investigations और questioning पहले सरकारी or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The primary targets of ऐसे suspicions यहूद सरकारी कर्मचारी, those in the entertainment industry, educators and union activists.
suspicions यहूद प्रायः दिए credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence, and the level of threat posed by a person 's real or supposed leftist associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated.
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or विनाश of उनके करियर ; कुछ भी suffered imprisonment.
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned, laws that would be declared unconstitutional, dismissals for reasons later घोषित illegal or actionable, or extra-legal प्रक्रियाओं कि होता आइये into सामान्य disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches, investigations, and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist, संबद्ध साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( huac ) ; और the विभिन्न anti-communist क्रियाएँ of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon that प्रभावित सब स्तर of समाज और थी the सोर्स of a ग्रेट सौदे of बहस and conflict in the United States.
Napoleon is a fictional अक्षर और the प्रमुख विपक्षी in जार्ज Orwell 's Animal Farm.
While he is at first a आम फार्म सुअर, he gets rid of Snowball, another pig which shares the power.
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` अध्यक्ष of एनिमल फार्म, '' जिससे he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला कि plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग इससे लैब्स और विश्वविद्यालयों around the world.
Along with its sister project, VENUS, NEPTUNE offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to समंदर विज्ञान.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध, जबकि the वरुण project uses a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s, initially the division 's highest trim line but, starting in 1955, the lowest trim line.
In the 1960s, the नाम थी transferred to चकमा 's mid-size entry.
ARM9 is an भुजा वास्तुकला 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political जातियाँ संस्थापित लिये the आम good.
Historically, it has sometimes महरूम synonymous with `` republic ``.
More recently it रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal associations of some sovereign nations.
Most notably, the Commonwealth of Nations, an association primarily of पूर्व सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, is प्रायः referred to as बस `` the राष्ट्रमंडल ''.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. क्षेत्रफल on सितंबर 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so वे could be flown into इमारतें in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175, यहूद क्रैश into the North and South towers, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed साथ मलबा और the resulting फ़ायर causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब other buildings in the WTC complex, as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of रक्षा ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., but क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, बाद इसके यात्री आजमाया to overcome the hijackers.
In total, लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the हमले, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, ओसामा बिन लादेन, initially अस्वीकृत any involvement, in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and बिन लादेन cited u.S. support of इसराईल, the उपस्थिति of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism विधान और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन powers.
having evaded कैप्चर लिये सालो, बिन लादेन was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन और था a significant प्रभाव on global markets.
Cleanup of the संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त in May 2002, and the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, सहित the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy विलंब, the एक संसार Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater Lake National Park is a संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल पार्क located in southern Oregon.
स्थापित in 1902, crater झील नेशनल Park is the fifth oldest national park in the United States and the only one in the state of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake, a remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी, माउंट mazama, और the surrounding hills and forests.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, which makes it the deepest lake in the United States, the second deepest in उत्तर अमेरिका और the नवीं deepest in the संसार.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world, but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in अंटार्कटिक, जिससे resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ, और the हाल रपट of a maximum depth for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
However, when comparing its average depth of to the average गहराई of अन्य गहन झीलों, Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world.
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of माउंट mazama और the अपेक्षाकृत नम जलवायु कि is ठेठ of the crest of the cascade Range.
The caldera रिम सीमाएँ in उन्नयन from.
The United States geological सर्वेक्षण benchmarked elevation of the lake surface itself is.
This नेशनल पार्क encompasses.
crater झील रै no स्ट्रीम flowing into or out of it.
All water that enters the lake is आखिरकार खोया इससे वाष्पीकरण or subsurface seepage.
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue, and the lake is re-filled entirely इससे सीधा वर्षण in the form of snow and rain.
The Supreme Court of the संयुक्त राज्य is the उच्चतम अदालत in the United States.
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state court cases involving issues of संघीय विधि, और असली क्षेत्राधिकार over a small range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., consists of a मुख्य इंसाफ और आठ संबद्ध justices जो हैं मनोनीत by the अध्यक्ष और confirmed by the United States Senate.
Once appointed, justices have जीवन कार्यकाल unless they resign, retire, or are removed after impeachment.
Conroe is the seat of मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात भीतर the metropolitan area.
It is located परिचय उत्तर of ह्यूस्टन.
As of July 2011, the city population was 58,973, up इससे 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement, which adherents मानना contains कृतियाँ of प्राचीन नबियों जो जिया on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421.
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as The Book of Mormon : An खाता लिखा by the हाथ of mormon upon प्लेटों Taken from the Plates of Nephi.
According to Smith 's account, and भी according to the किताब 's कथा, the किताब of mormon was originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book, a man named Moroni, buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an देवदूत, revealing the स्थान of the किताब to स्मिथ और instructing उसे to अनुवाद और disseminate it as प्रमाण of the restoration of Christ 's true church in the latter days.
The Book of Mormon has a number of असली और distinctive doctrinal चर्चाएँ on विषय ऐसे as the पतन of आदम और संध्या, the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित, eschatology, redemption from physical and spiritual death, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal event of the book is an रूप of यीशु मसीह to the americas shortly बाद his resurrection.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the latter दिन संत गति, the denominations of जिससे typically लिहाज़ the टेक्स्ट not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books, titled बाद the individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक और, in most versions, divided into chapters and verses.
It is written in English, very similar to the Early Modern English भाषाई स्टाइल of the किंग जेम्स संस्करण of the बाइबल, और रै चूंकि been fully or partially translated into 108 languages.
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or enlisted रेट ) is, in सबसे militaries, कोई रैंक below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
the पद can भी be समावेशी of non-commissioned officers.
In most cases, आयोजिक सेवा कर्मियों perform कार्य विशिष्ट to उनके अपना occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by bob thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and वेइस यहूद दोनो prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
Armstrong 's रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The प्रकाशन लिये इस सोंग is नियंत्रित by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
1908 पोस्टर विज्ञापन gaumont 's sound films.
the chronomégaphone, designed for large halls, employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound.
A sound फिल्मी is a गति चित्र साथ synchronized sound, or sound technologically coupled to image, as opposed to a silent film.
The first known public exhibition of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900, but decades would pass पहले ध्वनि गति तस्वीरें यहूद बना commercially व्यावहारिक.
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, और प्रवर्धन and recording quality were also inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the first commercial screening of short motion तस्वीरें using the प्रौद्योगिकी, जिससे took प्लेस in 1923.
The primary steps in the व्यावसायीकरण of ध्वनि cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s.
At first, the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking तस्वीरें '', or `` टॉकीज़ '' —were exclusively शॉर्ट्स ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound included only music and effects.
The first feature film originally presented as a talkie थी the जैज़ सिंगर, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it was made with Vitaphone, the अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc प्रौद्योगिकी.
Sound-on-film, however, would soon become the मानक लिये talking pictures.
By the early 1930s, the टॉकीज़ यहूद a वैश्विक phenomenon.
In the United States, they helped सुरक्षित हॉलीवुड 's स्थिति as एक of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and critics, who worried that a फ़ोकस on संवाद होता subvert the अद्वितीय aesthetic virtues of soundless सिनेमा.
In Japan, where the popular film परंपरा एकीकृत मूक फिल्म और सजीव गायन प्रदर्शन, talking pictures were slow to take root.
In India, sound was the transformative तत्व कि led to the रैपिड विस्तार of the स्वदेश 's फिल्मी industry—the सबसे उत्पादक such industry in the world since the early 1960s.
African people are natives or inhabitants of अफ़्रीकी और लोगों of African descent.
The Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an annual series of पुरस्कार नाइट्स celebrating the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई म्यूज़िक उद्योग, put on by the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), Lifetime Achievement पुरस्कार और aria हॉल of कीर्ति – आयोजित separately इससे 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, ARIA introduced पब्लिक voted पुरस्कार लिये the पहला time.
Winning, or even being nominated for, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and usually increases रिकॉर्डिंग बिक्री several-fold – in 2005, लिये उदाहरण, बाद बेन ली जीती तीन पुरस्कार, उसके एल्बम जाग is the नई नींद jumped from No. 31 to No. 5 in the ARIA Charts, its highest position.
For-profit education ( also known as the education services industry or proprietary education ) refers to educational संस्थानों संचालित by निजी, लाभ -seeking businesses.
There are तीन प्रकार of for-profit schools.
One type is known as an educational management organization ( EMO ), and these are प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक संस्थानों.
EMOs work with स्कूल जिले or चार्टर स्कूलों, using public funds to finance operations.
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in अमेरिका फलन as emos, और have grown in number in the mid-2000s.
The other प्रमुख श्रेणी of for-profit स्कूलों हैं post-secondary संस्थानों which operate as businesses, receiving fees from each student they enroll.
A third प्रकार of for-profit स्कूलों, which is less prevalent in the United States, are K–12 schools which operate as businesses.
EMOs function differently इससे चार्टर स्कूलों निर्मित in अनुक्रम to carry आउट a particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; most charter schools are mission-oriented, while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented.
While supporters argue that the लाभ motive encourages दक्षता, इस व्यवस्था has also drawn controversy and criticism.
Kevin Carey, director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column in The वृत्तान्त of उच्चतर शिक्षा कि `` for-profits मौजूद in विशाल भाग to फिक्स शैक्षणिक market failures left by traditional institutions, and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no doubt कि the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting the commodified college degree.
But they did n't commodify it in the पहला place. ''
Amendment XXII in the नेशनल Archives
The twenty-second amendment of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान sets a term limit for election to the office of President of the United States.
Congress passed the amendment on कूच 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the आवश्यक क्रमांक of राज्य on फ़रवरी 27, 1951.
इस is an episode guide for the anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the title used in the अंग्रेज़ी उतावले संस्करण airing in the संयुक्त राज्य on कार्टून Network.
A short summary will follow, introducing the एपीसोड और referring to कुछ of the ढकोसला, लकिन नहीं giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
All names and some of the references होगा be the ones प्रयुक्त इससे the English-language version to avoid confusion.
Japanese names may be presented after the डब नाम in कोष्ठक.
This article is about the public park in नई यॉर्क नगर.
For other uses, see Central Park ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Central Park is a public park at the center of मैनहटन in नई यॉर्क नगर.
The park initially खोली in 1857, on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux won a design competition to improve and expand the park with a योजना वे हकदार the greensward Plan.
Construction began the same year, जारी दौरान the अमरीकी Civil War, and was completed in 1873.
Central पार्क is the सबसे visited शहरी पार्क in the United States.
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the park is currently प्रबंधित by the सेंट्रल पार्क conservancy अंतर्गत अनुबंध साथ the नगर government.
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million सालाना बजट, और employs 80.7 % of the पार्क 's maintenance staff.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider operating in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands और is a subsidiary of मैक्सिको 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile आभासी संजाल ऑपरेटर ( mvno ), tracfone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of Verizon, AT & T, Sprint, and T-Mobile.
TracFone Wireless offers its बेतार उत्पाद अंतर्गत अनेक ब्रांड्स जिससे प्रत्येक भी प्रस्ताव distinctive service plans, the brands include TracFone, NET10 Wireless, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and Simple Mobile.
A grab dredge
Dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at तनिक partly भाटे, in उथले समंदर or भैस water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location.
This technique is often used to रखना जलमार्गों navigable.
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on some public समुद्रतट, जहाँ बालू रै महरूम खोया because of coastal erosion.
Dredging is also used as a technique for फ़िशिंग लिये निश्चित प्रजाति of खाद्य clams and crabs, see fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the americas ) is कोई यंत्र, यंत्र, or vessel that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water.
For example, a scoop attached to the समाप्त of a रस्सी or ध्रुव by जिससे a man can चित्रण sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this idea further, a motorized crane equipped साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger.
The crane could be located on the bank, or शायद आरोहित on a barge.
If the crane is mounted on a barge, the entire vessel is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess सामग्री ), जिससे हैं carried away from the dredged area.
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( usually construction-related ), and रै भी historically निभाई a significant भूमिका in सुनहरा mining.
Dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, प्रायः साथ प्रतिकूल impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic फटना at माउंट pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's सतह or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates हैं diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually not created where two tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड पास्ट एक another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells gray-clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the रिओ ग्रांडे दरार in North America.
This प्रकार of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also महरूम समझाया as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, लिये उदाहरण हवाई, हैं postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards, not तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those साथ जेट इंजन where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
बेनेडिक्ट अर्नाल्ड ( जून 14, 1801 ) थी a सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी War who originally fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army.
While a general on the American side, he obtained command of the fort at वेस्ट पाइंट, नई यॉर्क, and planned to surrender it to the British forces.
After the plan was exposed in September 1780, he थी commissioned into the अंग्रेजों फौज as a brigadier general.
Born in Connecticut, Arnold was a merchant operating ships on the अटलांटिक समंदर जब the युद्ध broke आउट in 1775.
After joining the growing army outside Boston, he विशिष्ट खुद through अधिनियमों of intelligence and bravery.
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite खोने the बैटल of valcour द्वीप on झील champlain in 1776, the Battle of Ridgefield, Connecticut ( after which he was promoted to major general ), operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix, and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777, in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years.
Despite Arnold 's successes, he was passed over for promotion by the Continental Congress while other officers claimed credit for some of his accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and राजनैतिक वृत्त brought आरोप of भ्रष्टाचार or अन्य malfeasance, but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries.
कॉंग्रेस investigated उसके खाते और मिला he थी ऋणी to कॉंग्रेस after spending much of his own money on the war effort.
Frustrated and bitter, Arnold decided to बदलें पहलू in 1779, and opened secret negotiations with the British.
In July 1780, he was offered, continued to pursue और थी awarded command of West Point.
Arnold 's योजना to आत्मसमर्पण the फोर्ट to the अंग्रेजों थी उजागर when American forces captured British Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of André 's capture, Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the अंग्रेजों sloop-of-war गिद्ध, narrowly बचने कैप्चर by the forces of George Washington, who had been alerted to the plot.
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the British Army, an annual पेंशन of £360, और a lump योग of over £6,000.
He led British forces on raids in Virginia, and against New London and Groton, Connecticut, before the war effectively ended साथ the अमरीकी विजय at yorktown.
In the शीत of 1782, अर्नाल्ड स्थानांतरित to लंदन साथ उसके दूसरी बीवी, Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold.
He was well received by King George III and the tories लकिन खीझ upon by the whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the merchant business with his sons रिचर्ड और हेनरी in Saint John, New Brunswick.
He returned to लंदन to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten years later.
क्युकी of the रास्ता he बदला पहलू, उसके नाम जल्दी became a in the United States for treason or betrayal.
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous प्रकृति of कुछ of the memorials कि have महरूम लगाई in his honor.
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a former American Major लीग बेसबॉल right-handed पिचर और वीडियो खेल डेवलपर.
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in and won World Series championships in साथ the एरिज़ोना डाइमन्डबैक्स and in and with the Boston Red Sox.
Schilling retired साथ a करियर postseason record of 11–2.
His.846 postseason winning प्रतिशत is a major-league record among pitchers with at least 10 decisions.
After retiring, he संस्थापित ग्रीन Monster Games which was renamed 38 Studios.
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012, but just three months later, Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the कम्पनी लापता payroll the previous week.
Star Wars is an अमरीकी एपिक स्पेस ओपेरा franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas.
The film series रै शाखित a मीडिया मताधिकार बाहर the फिल्मी श्रेणी called the Expanded Universe including books, television series, computer and video games, and comic books.
These पूरक to the फिल्मी trilogies have resulted in significant development of the series ' fictional universe.
ये मीडिया रखा the मताधिकार क्रियाशील in the interim between the film trilogies.
The franchise portrays a आकाशगंगा कि is वर्णित as far, far away in the distant past.
It commonly portrays Jedi as a प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ, in conflict with the Sith, their evil counterpart.
Their हथियार of चुनाव, the lightsaber, is commonly recognized in popular culture.
The fictional universe भी contains अनेक विषयवस्तु, विशेषकर प्रभाव of philosophy and religion.
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25, 1977, under the title Star Wars, by 20th Century Fox, and became a worldwide pop संस्कृति घटना, followed by दो सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years after the release of the trilogy 's final film, the पहला in a नई प्रीक्वेल त्रयी of films थी released.
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals, with the final film of the त्रयी released on may 19, 2005.
In October 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that it would produce three new films, साथ the पहला फिल्मी, Star Wars Episode VII, planned for release in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies, owning permanent rights for the original film एपीसोड iv : a नई आशा, जबकि पकड़कर the अधिकारों to एपीसोड i–iii, V and VI until May 2020.
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive, with the last film being considered the weakest, while the prequel trilogy प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया, साथ सबसे of the तारीफ़ होने लिये the फाइनल फिल्म, according to most review aggregator websites.
All six of the main films in the श्रेणी यहूद भी मनोनीत लिये or won Academy Awards.
All of the main films have been box office successes, with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( सहित the नाट्य स्टार युद्धों : the क्लोन युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 अरब, making it the third-highest-grossing film series.
The success has भी led to अनेक re-releases in theaters for the series.
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, though these names are rarely used ) is the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes, अधिक commonly पुकारा प्लेटलेट्स, a component of blood involved in blood clotting.
The term specifically refers to the विधि of collecting the प्लेटलेट्स, जिससे is performed by a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in रक्त donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor.
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious जटिलताओं इससे bleeding और hemorrhage in मरीजों जो have विकार manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily ऊँची platelet रिश्तो ऐसे as अनिवार्य thrombocytosis.
In computer networking, a port is an application-specific or process-specific software construct सेवारत as a संचार endpoint in a computer 's host operating system.
A port is associated साथ an ip पता of the host, as well as the type of protocol used for communication.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a सिंगल शारीरिक कनेक्शन to a packet-switched network like the Internet.
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols, such as the हस्तांतरण कंट्रोल प्रोटोकॉल ( टीसीपी ) और the उपयोक्ता datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite.
A port is identified for each address and प्रोटोकॉल by a 16-bit number, commonly known as the port number.
The port number, added to a computer 's IP पता, completes the गंतव्य पता लिये a संचार session.
That is, data packets are routed across the network to a विशिष्ट गंतव्य ip पता, और तब, upon reaching the destination computer, are further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number.
Note that it is the combination of IP address and बंदरगाहों क्रमांक साथ कि जरूर be globally unique.
Thus, different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for communication ; e.g., on a given host or इंटरफ़ेस यूडीपी और टीसीपी may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक, or on a मेजबान साथ दो interfaces, both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known ports हैं सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन to पहचानो specific service types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, ports are used to provide a multiplexing service on each server-side port number that network clients connect to for सेवा दीक्षा, बाद जिससे संचार can be reestablished on अन्य connection-specific बंदरगाहों numbers.
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas, including the cities of Fort Smith, Fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the second, third, चौथी, आठवीं और tenth-largest शहरों in the राज्य, क्रमशः.
It was created in 2002 in a split from क्षेत्रफल कोड 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, Logan, Madison, polk, पोप, स्कॉट, सेबेस्टियन, वॉशिंगटन और चिल्लाते काउंटी in अरकंसास.
arraignment is a औपचारिक पढना of a दण्ड चार्जिंग document in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her.
In response to arraignment, the अभियुक्त is expected to enter a plea.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include `` guilty '', `` not अपराधी '', और the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in बार ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) और the `` alford plea `` are allowed in some circumstances.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Australia, arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a दण्ड विचारण, और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत पढना out the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether he or she pleads अपराधी or नहीं अपराधी to प्रत्येक चार्ज.
In federal courts of the United States, arraignment takes प्लेस in दो चरण.
The first is पुकारा the आरंभिक arraignment और जरूर लो प्लेस भीतर 48 घंटों of an व्यक्तिगत 's गिरफ़्तार, 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत थी arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday.
During this arraignment the प्रतिवादी is सूचित of the स्थगित विधिक आरोप and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel.
The presiding judge also decides at what amount, if कोई, to नियत bail.
During the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or pia, the प्रतिवादी is allowed to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), known as the Father of English literature, is widely माना the महानतम अंग्रेज़ी कवि of the मध्य आयु और was the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author, philosopher, कीमियागर और astronomer, composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis, Chaucer also maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, courtier and diplomat.
Among his many works, which include The Book of the duchess, the हाउस of कीर्ति, the लेजेंड of शुभ महिलाओं और troilus और criseyde, he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the देशी, मध्य अंग्रेज़ी, at a समय जब the dominant literary languages in England were French and Latin.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that affected northern Illinois and northwest इंडियाना, u.S. on जनवरी 13 – जनवरी 14, 1979.
of snow fell on January 13 alone, सेटिंग a नई रिकार्ड लिये हिम in एक पंचांग day.
By the end of जनवरी 14, of हिम had fallen.
The ठंडा मौसम और हिमपात throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses, quickly overwhelming capacity, resulting in usual bus commutes of 30-45 मिनट्स लेने up to अनेक hours.
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the गलियों, the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged to लो numerous detours, adding additional time to the commute.
Deployment of plows थी significantly विलम्बित और जब वे finally appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months, causing जारी पब्लिक पारगमन देरी और significant समस्याएं साथ trash collection.
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on महापौर माइकल bilandic, जो था assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne, Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the दो could नहीं मिलेंगी साथ ), capitalized on इस और गई on to शिकस्त bilandic in the फ़रवरी 27 primary.
The 12-hour clock is a समय सम्मेलन in जिससे the 24 घंटों of the दिन हैं विभाजित into two periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem, meaning `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem, `` after midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting as zero ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was developed over time from the mid-second मिलेनियम bc to the 16th सदी AD.
Health spending per capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, साथ the us और कनाडा compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा and the United States are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada, on both a per-capita आधार और as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी.
In 2006, per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी, बनाम 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, and U.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have आइये to अलग conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in कनाडा, और इसके शिशु मृत्यु रेट is lower than that of the U.S., but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the वितरण of स्वास्थ्य, the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान '', क्रमित कनाडा 30th और the us 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service for individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared साथ 7th लिये कनाडा.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare प्रणाली is श्रेष्ठ.
the जो 's पढ़ाई विधि were criticized by some analyses.
Although वहीँ is a माप of सर्वसम्मति कि life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of प्रायः बालदार और बहुत विशाल arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of spiders, of which approximately 900 species have been identified.
This article only describes members of theraphosidae, although some other members of the same suborder are commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
Most प्रजाति of tarantulas हैं नहीं खतरनाक to humans, and some species have become popular in the exotic pet trade.
the ton is a unit of measure.
It has a long history and has acquired a number of meanings and उपयोग over the सालो.
It is used principally as a ईकाई of वज़न, and as a unit of volume.
It can also be used as a माप of उर्जा, लिये ट्रक वर्गीकरण, or as a colloquial term.
It is derived from the tun, the पद लागू to a बैरल of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ), which could weigh around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) और occupy कुछ of स्पेस.
In the United किंगडम the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ).
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication और धीरे introduced मीट्रिक इकाई, सहित the टन ( मीट्रिक ton ), a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg.
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded इससे उपयोग for trade many units and terms, including the ton and the term `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the संयुक्त राज्य और formerly कनाडा a ton is defined to be.
Where confusion is संभावित, the 2240 lb ton is पुकारा `` long ton `` और the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is distinguished by its spelling, but usually pronounced the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` टन '' can भी be सुनाया ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` मीट्रिक ton '' जब it is necessary to make the distinction.
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used, but for many purposes this is not जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और long टन differ by तभी 1.6 %, and the short ton is within 11 % of both.
The ton is the heaviest ईकाई of वज़न referred to in colloquial speech.
The term `` ton '' is also used to refer to a क्रमांक of इकाई of आवाज़, ranging from in capacity.
It can also be used as a ईकाई of उर्जा, expressed as an समतुल्य of coal burnt, TNT detonated, or in refrigeration, ice melted.
In Britain, ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in अनेक contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a cost or a speed, a ton is widely समझा to be £100 or 100 mph.
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी awarded annually to the नेशनल Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge कप, the ट्रॉफी is नामित लिये रब Stanley of Preston, then- Governor General of Canada, who awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club, which the entire Stanley family supported, with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game.
The पहला कप थी awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the two professional ice hockey organizations, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( PCHA ), reached a gentlemen 's agreement in which उनके संबंधित champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup.
After a series of league mergers and folds, the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was established as the de facto चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी of the एनएचएल in 1926 और तब the de jure एनएचएल चैंपियनशिप prize in 1947.
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the original bowl of the `` डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती कप '', the सत्यापित `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL has maintained effective कंट्रोल over दोनो the ट्रॉफी itself and its associated trademarks.
Nevertheless, the NHL does not actually own the trophy, but बजाय उपयोग it by अनुबंध साथ the दो trustees of the Cup.
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup, हालांकि the लीग 's सही to outright अपना trademarks संबद्ध साथ a ट्रॉफी it करता नहीं अपना has been disputed by some legal experts.
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports leagues of North अमेरिका, a नई स्टेनली कप is नहीं बना प्रत्येक साल ; विजेता रखना it जबतक a नई champion is crowned.
It is unusual among ट्राफियां, in कि it has the names of all of the winning players, coaches, management, and club staff engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new band added each year caused the trophy to grow in आकार, earning the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed साथ a five-band बैरल जिससे could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the Stanley कप इससे growing, जब the नीचे बैंड is पूरा, the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
It has been referred to as The Cup, रब स्टेनली 's कप, the पावन grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug.
the स्टेनली कप is घिरी by numerous महापुरूष और परंपराओं, the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team.
The original कटोरी थी बना of चांदी और is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter.
The current Stanley Cup, topped with a copy of the original bowl, is बना of a चांदी और निकल मिश्रधातु ; it रै a ऊँचाई of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
Since the 1914–15 season, the Cup has been जीती a संयुक्त 94 टाइम्स by 18 क्रियाशील एनएचएल टीमों और पाँच defunct teams.
Prior to that, the चुनौती कप थी held by nine different teams.
The मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens have जीती the कप a रिकार्ड 24 times and are currently the last Canadian-based team in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 because of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी, and in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced जामुन, और the सबसे economically significant संयंत्र in the Bromeliaceae family.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of the फल, संभवतः flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months.
Pineapple does नहीं ripen significantly post-harvest.
pineapples हैं खपत भैस, पकाया, juiced, और preserved, and are found in a wide array of cuisines.
In addition to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are प्रयुक्त to उपज the वस्त्र रेशा piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल पेपर और furnishings, amongst other uses.
In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a आंकड़ा प्रकार जिससे represents कुछ परिमित उपसमुच्चय of the mathematical integers.
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may नहीं be अनुमत to contain ऋणात्मक values.
Integers are commonly represented in a कंप्यूटर as a group of binary digits.
The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer sizes उपलब्धियाँ varies between अलग प्रकार of computers.
Computer हार्डवेयर nearly सदा provides a रास्ता to represent a प्रोसेसर register or memory address as an integer.
The गॉर्डन बांध in तस्मानिया is a large hydro facility, with an installed capacity of.
hydroelectricity is the पद referring to विद्युत generated by hydropower ; the production of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water.
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of विद्युत उत्पादन in 2010, और is अपेक्षित to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years.
hydropower is उत्पादित in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity निर्माता, साथ 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use.
There are now तीन hydroelectricity पौधे larger than 10 gw : the तीन gorges Dam in China, Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border, and Guri Dam in Venezuela.
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी सोर्स of बेदर्दी विद्युत.
The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 u.S. सेंट per kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped up और bas बहुत जल्दी to adapt to बदलना उर्जा मांगे.
However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm लोकल ecosystems, और भवन विशाल dams और टंकी often involves displacing people and wildlife.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the प्रोजेक्ट produces no सीधा बर्बाद, और रै a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.
Wine boy at a यूनानी symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of years and is closely intertwined with the history of agriculture, cuisine, सभ्यता और मानवता itself.
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in कया is अभी the देश of जॉर्जिया around 7000 bce, साथ other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The world 's oldest known winery ( दिनाँक to 3000 bce ) थी खोजा in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous area of Armenia.
url_http.
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of the grapevine took place during the Early कांस्य आयु in the निकट ईस्ट, सुमेर और मिश्र इससे around the तीसरा millennium BCE.
Evidence of the earliest wine production in balkans रै महरूम uncovered at पुरातत्व sites in northern Greece ( Macedonia ), dated to 4500 BC.
These same sites also contain remnants of the संसार 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes.
In मिश्र, वाइन became a भाग of अंकित इतिहास, playing an important role in ancient ceremonial life.
Traces of wild wine dating from the second and first सहस्राब्दियों bce have भी been found in China.
मोरक्कन वाइन kasher label 1930
The Jewish tradition and उपयोग of कोषेर वाइन is dating back to biblical times.
The long history of the use and उत्पादन of वाइन throughout प्राचीन Israel is backed up by archeological evidence.
भीतर the यहूदी diaspora समुदायों सब around the globe, the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, was common in ancient Greece and Rome, and many of today 's major wine-producing regions of पश्चिमी यूरोपीय यहूद स्थापित साथ फ़ोनीशियाई और, बाद, Roman plantations.
Winemaking technology improved considerably दौरान the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य : अनेक अंगूर किस्में और cultivation techniques were known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine.
Rashi, a medieval French rabbi and called the `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh, अर्जित उसके जीना as a vintner.
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale वाइन उत्पादन लिये निर्यात, the ईसाई गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय भी became a कड़ समर्थक of वाइन, necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass. Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures, its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the आसवन of वाइन लिये इस्लामी medicinal and industrial purposes such as perfume.
Wine उत्पादन धीरे increased, साथ खपत burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
Wine production survived the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 and आखिरकार स्प्रेड to numerous regions throughout the world.
Districts of वेस्ट बंगाल
The Indian state of West बंगाल सीमायें साथ नेपाल, भूटान, बांग्लादेश and the Indian states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Sikkim.
The Himalayas lies in the उत्तर of the राज्य और the खाड़ी of बंगाल is at the south.
In between उन्हें, the नदी गंगा बहती eastwards और इसके प्रमुख distributary, the Hooghly River, flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal.
The Siliguri Corridor, which connects North-East India with rest of the इण्डिया, झूठ in the उत्तर बंगाल प्रदेश of the state.
Geographically, West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region, terai और द्वार प्रदेश, उत्तर बंगाल मैदान, rarh प्रदेश, पश्चिमी पठार and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the राज्य of वेस्ट बंगाल थी formed साथ 14 जिले, as प्रति विभाजन plan of the then Bengal province of British India.
The former princely राज्य koch बिहार joined as a ज़िला in 1950, और the पूर्व French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia district to the state और to enlargement of वेस्ट दिनाजपुर ज़िला.
Later, larger districts such as West Dinajpur, 24 परगना और Midnapore were bifurcated.
West Bengal is now divided into उन्नीस जिले अंतर्गत three divisions.
जिले हैं administered by ज़िला Magistrates, and divisions are administered by Divisional Commissioners.
Kolkata, the capital of the state, constitutes the कोलकाता district.
Other districts are further divided into administrative units such as subdivisions and ब्लॉक, administered by sdo and BDO, respectively.
The Panchayati Raj रै a three-tier structure in the state.
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat, which is the Panchayat संगठन लिये a संग्रहण of गांवों.
The block-level संगठन हैं पुकारा पंचायत samiti, और the district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad.
the caribbean ( or ; ; ; or अधिक commonly antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea, its islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of मैक्सिको और the उत्तर अमरीकी मेनलैंड, ईस्ट of Central America, and north of South America.
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate, the region comprises more than 700 आइलैंड्स, आइलेट, reefs, और cays.
( देखिए the सूची. )
ये आइलैंड्स generally रूप द्वीप arcs that delineate the eastern and northern edges of the Caribbean Sea.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the उत्तर और the lesser antilles on the दक्षिण और ईस्ट ( सहित the leeward antilles ), हैं भाग of the somewhat larger West Indies grouping, which also includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the mainland countries of Belize and गुयाना – historically और culturally भाग of the British West Indies – may be included.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America और हैं व्यवस्थित into 30 territories सहित sovereign राज्य, overseas departments, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, there was a short-lived देश पुकारा the संघ of the वेस्ट इंडीज रचित of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories, all of which were then UK dependencies.
The West Indies cricket टोली continues to represent अनेक of those nations.
This is a list of the 221 कस्बों और 13 शहरों in the U.S. state of New Hampshire.
लिये प्रत्येक town/city, the तालिका सूचियाँ the काउंटी to जिससे it belongs, its date of incorporation, its population according to the 2010 census, its form of government, and its principal villages.
शहरों हैं indicated in boldface.
शहरों और कस्बों are treated identically under state law.
Cities are just towns whose form of government was changed by a खास अधिनियम of the नई हैम्पशायर विधानमंडल.
However, towns फिलहाल हैं समर्थ to बदलें उनके रूप of सरकारी by सरल वोटर स्वीकृति of a new municipal charter, with several of the more populous towns having already done so.
the प्रमुख स्लेव routes in medieval Africa.
This आलेख discusses प्रणालियों, इतिहास, and effects of slavery within Africa.
See Arab slave trade, Atlantic slave trade, maafa, और गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी लिये other discussions.
`` Slave transport in अफ़्रीकी ''.
europeans प्रायः किया नहीं डालें the interior regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many सदियां, और continues in the वर्तमान day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the महाद्वीप, as वे यहूद in much of the ancient world.
In सबसे अफ़्रीकी समाजों जहाँ गुलामी थी प्रचलित, the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began, many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives लिये स्लेव बाज़ार बाहर of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
कर्ज़ गुलामी, enslavement of युद्ध captives, military slavery, and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although वहीँ था महरूम कुछ trans-saharan व्यापार इससे the आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions, गुलामी was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10, 1992, लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 एनएफएल Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in लिये घायल क्वार्टरबैक डॉन majkowski, और प्रारंभ प्रत्येक game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
He is the only खिलाड़ी to जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), five NFC Championship Games ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और दो सुपर कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi, सुपर कटोरी xxxii ), जीतना एक ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most करियर interceptions thrown, सबसे लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी, सबसे लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे करियर victories as a starting क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by his उपनाम `` the gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in San Francisco, California.
Though बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये इसके ग्राहक संबंध प्रबन्धन ( crm ) उत्पाद, Salesforce has also expanded into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes magazine, as well as क्रमांक 27 in सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 100 बेहतरीन कंपनियाँ to कार्य लिये in 2012.
As of April 2013, the कम्पनी is क्रमित छठे in providing services in marketing and customer service automation.
It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange और is a constituent of the S & P 500 index.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine fish in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' और kampos अर्थ `` समुद्र दानव ''.
Earth is the third planet from the Sun, and the densest and fifth-largest of the आठ ग्रह in the सौर System.
it is भी the largest of the Solar System 's four terrestrial planets.
It is sometimes referred to as the world or the Blue Planet.
Earth formed approximately 4.54 अरब सालो पहले, और जीवन appeared on इसके surface within its first billion years.
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other मौलिक शारीरिक शर्तें, जिससे सक्रिय the अप्रसार of जीवों as खूब as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत, जिससे साथ with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
The physical properties of the Earth, as well as its geological इतिहास और कक्षा, have allowed life to persist.
Estimates on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support जीवन दायरा इससे, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is विभाजित into अनेक rigid खण्ड, or tectonic प्लेटों, कि migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans, with the remainder consisting of continents and islands which together have अनेक झीलों और अन्य स्त्रोत of जल कि contribute to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's डंडे हैं ज़्यादातर covered साथ बर्फ कि is the ठोस ice of the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs.
the ग्रह 's आंतरिक remains active, with a solid iron inner core, a liquid outer core that generates the magnetic field, and a thick layer of relatively solid mantle.
Earth gravitationally interacts with अन्य वस्तुएँ in स्पेस, विशेषकर the सूर्य और the Moon.
During one orbit around the सूर्य, the धरती घुमाता परिचय इसके अपना अक्ष 366.26 times, creating 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's अक्ष of रोटेशन is tilted 23.4° दूर इससे the लम्बवत of इसके कक्षीय plane, producing seasonal variations on the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ).
The Moon is Earth 's only प्राकृतिक उपग्रह.
It began orbiting the Earth about.
The Moon 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक बातचीत साथ धरती stimulates समंदर tides, stabilizes the axial tilt, and gradually slows the planet 's rotation.
The planet is home to लाखो of प्रजाति of life, including humans.
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the जीवमंडल योगदान संसाधन कि हैं प्रयुक्त to support a global human population.
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य, जिससे interact through diplomacy, travel, trade, and military action.
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet, including its personification as a planetary deity, its shape as flat, its position as the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड, और in the आधुनिक gaia principle, as a सिंगल, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the Waite-Smith tarot, जो is चित्रित using the वही टूल्स कि आधुनिक Wiccans use.
In the neopagan religion of Wicca, a दायरा of जादुई टूल्स हैं प्रयुक्त in ritual practice.
Each of these tools रै अलग उपयोग और एसोसिएशन, और are used primarily to direct magical energies.
They are used at an वेदी, अंदर a magic circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are often divided into personal tools, जिससे हैं लिये उपयोग by, और स्वामित्व by, an व्यक्तिगत Wiccan, and coven tools, used collectively by the coven.
This practice may derive partly इससे masonic परंपराओं ( ऐसे as the उपयोग of the वर्गाकार और compasses ), इससे which Wicca draws some material, and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
The latter बना much उपयोग of सामग्री इससे मध्यकालीन grimoires ऐसे as the Key of Solomon, which has many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation.
Typical eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ), और तब release waste products.
The reactions involved in श्वसन हैं catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर कार्यकलाप.
Cellular respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स reaction.
The overall प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into अनेक smaller ones when it occurs in the body, most of which are redox reactions themselves.
Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly करता नहीं resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
This अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction, no single प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a दहन reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in श्वसन शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids और fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in एटीपी ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure आग extinguisher made by Amerex
A British fire extinguisher with id चिह्न, कॉल पाइंट और आग action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an active fire protection यंत्र प्रयुक्त to बुझा or कंट्रोल छोटी फ़ायर, often in emergency situations.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire, such as one which has reached the छत, endangers the उपयोक्ता ( i.e., no एस्केप रूट, धुँआ, विस्फोट hazard, etc. ), or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held बेलनाकार दबाव पोत containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in सब इमारतें अन्य than घरों, हैं generally जरूरी to be serviced and inspected by a Fire Protection service company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions require more बारंबार सेवा लिये आग extinguishers.
the servicer स्थान a टैग on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed ( annual inspection, recharge, new fire extinguisher ) and when.
There are two main types of fire extinguishers : भंडारित दबाव और cartridge-operated.
In stored pressure units, the expellant is भंडारित in the same chamber as the firefighting agent itself.
Depending on the agent used, अलग propellants हैं used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, nitrogen is typically used ; जल और झाग extinguishers typically उपयोग air.
Stored pressure fire extinguishers are the सबसे आम प्रकार.
cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate cartridge that is punctured prior to discharge, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is नहीं as आम, प्रयुक्त primarily in क्षेत्रों ऐसे as industrial facilities, where they receive higher-than-average use.
They have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge, allowing an ऑपरेटर to निर्वहन the extinguisher, रिचार्ज it, और return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
Unlike stored pressure types, these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide बजाय of नाइट्रोजन, हालांकि नाइट्रोजन कारतूस are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical and dry चूर्ण प्रकार in the u.S. और in जल, wetting एजेंट, झाग, शुष्क रासायनिक ( वर्ग एबीसी and B.C. ), and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers are further विभाजित into हैंडहेल्ड और cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 गामा ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), और हैं hence, easily portable by hand.
Cart-mounted units typically तौल 23+ गामा ( 50+ pounds ).
These wheeled models हैं सबसे commonly मिला at निर्माण sites, airport runways, heliports, as well as docks and marinas.
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in उत्तर अमेरिका भीतर the सीमाएँ of the present-day continental United States, Alaska, and the island state of Hawaii.
They are composed of numerous, distinct Native American जनजातियों और जातीय समूह, अनेक of जिससे जीवित as intact political communities.
The शर्तें प्रयुक्त to refer to देशी Americans have been controversial.
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau census_bureau नियत of घर साक्षात्कार, सबसे of the उत्तरदाताओं साथ an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as अमरीकी इंडियंस ( or बस इंडियंस ), और इस पद रै महरूम अपनाया by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however, this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives, such as Aleut, Yup'ik, or Inuit peoples.
Since the end of the 15th सदी, the माइग्रेशन of europeans to the americas, और उनके importation of africans as slaves, has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies.
Europeans created most of the early लिखा ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड परिचय Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas.
अनेक देशी अमेरिकी जिया as hunter-gatherer societies and told their histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, women carried out sophisticated cultivation of numerous varieties of staple crops : maize, beans and squash.
The indigenous cultures were काफी अलग इससे those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, mostly Christian immigrants from western Eurasia.
Many Native cultures were matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands for use of the entire community, for hunting or agriculture.
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had विकसित अवधारणाओं of व्यक्तिगत प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों साथ आदर to land that were extremely different.
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant Europeans, as well as shifting alliances among अलग राष्ट्र of प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the centuries, caused extensive political tension, ethnic violence and social disruption.
The Native Americans suffered high fatalities इससे the सम्पर्क साथ संक्रामक यूरेशियाई diseases, to which they had no acquired immunity.
महामारी बाद यूरोपीय सम्पर्क caused the greatest loss of life for indigenous populations.
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly, ranging इससे 1 लाख to 18 लाख.
After the colonies revolted against Great ब्रिटेन और स्थापित the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन and Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the choctaw, or मजबूर ) became a सतत नीति through American administrations.
During the 19th century, the ideology of manifest नियति became अभिन्न to the American nationalist movement.
Expansion of European-American populations to the वेस्ट बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on Native American lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the u.S. कॉंग्रेस passed the भारतीय हटाना अधिनियम, authorizing the सरकारी to relocate Native Americans from their homelands within established states to lands west of the Mississippi River, accommodating European-American expansion.
The first European Americans to encounter the western interior tribes यहूद generally फर व्यापारियों and trappers.
There were also Jesuit missionaries active in the उत्तरी टियर.
As United States expansion reached into the अमरीकी वेस्ट, settler और खनिक प्रवासियों आए into increasing conflict with the Great Basin, Great Plains, and other Western tribes.
ये यहूद जटिल nomadic संस्कृतियों आधारित on horse culture and seasonal bison hunting.
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the दशकों बाद the अमरीकी Civil War, in a series of Indian Wars, which were frequent up until the 1890s, but continued into the 20th century.
The transcontinental रेलरोड brought अधिक non-natives into tribal land in the west.
Over time, the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land cessions by the tribes, और स्थापित रिज़र्वेशन लिये them in many western states.
U.S. agents encouraged देशी अमेरिकी to अपनाना european-style खेती और समान pursuits, but European-American agricultural technology of the time was inadequate for often dry reservation lands.
In 1924, Native Americans who यहूद नहीं already u.S. नागरिकों यहूद granted citizenship by Congress.
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship साथ the संयुक्त राज्य क्युकी वे may be सदस्यों of nations, tribes, or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central अमेरिका ( ) is the central geographic region of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, which connects साथ दक्षिण अमेरिका on the southeast.
When considered part of the एकीकृत महाद्वीपीय मॉडल, it is माना a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven देशों : बेलीज़, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama.
Central America is part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity हॉटस्पॉट, जिससे extends इससे उत्तरी ग्वाटेमाला through central Panama.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the caribbean समुद्र to the ईस्ट, the उत्तर प्रशांत समंदर to the west, and Colombia to the south-east.
Central America is an area of, or लगभग 0.1 % of the धरती 's surface.
As of 2009, इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी अनुमानित at 41,739,000.
It has a density of 77 people per वर्गाकार kilometer.
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television series created by Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on एनबीसी और बाद ABC.
The series follows the lives of employees at the fictional पवित्र दिल शिक्षण hospital.
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी at the शुरूआत of the श्रेणी, most of the main characters were medical interns.
The series features fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes प्रस्तुत ज़्यादातर as the daydreams of the central character, Dr. John `` J.D. ''
Dorian, who is निभाई by zach Braff.
Actors starring alongside braff in the पहला आठ सीज़न included Sarah Chalke, Donald Faison, Neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes.
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors, such as Brendan फ्रेज़र, हीथर ग्राहम, और कोलिन Farrell.
In the ninth season, many new cast members were introduced और the show setting moved from a hospital to a medical school.
Out of the original cast, only Braff, Faison and McGinley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों, जबकि the अन्य साथ the एक्सेप्शन of Reyes, made guest appearances.
Braff appeared in छह एपीसोड of the ninth season before departing.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza कूप, डेव फ्रेंको और माइकल Mosley became series regulars with Bishé becoming the show 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर 2, 2001 on NBC.
the श्रेणी प्राप्त a Peabody Award in 2006.
During the seventh ऋतु, एनबीसी घोषित कि it would not renew the show.
Shortly after the सातवाँ ऋतु finale, एबीसी घोषित it था उठाई up the eighth season of the series, which began January 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On may 14, 2010, एबीसी घोषित it था officially canceled Scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine, used in Netherton at the ironworks of M W Grazebrook.
re-erected on the A38 ( M ) in Birmingham, UK
A steam engine is a ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs mechanical कार्य using steam as its working fluid.
Using boiling जल to उपज mechanical गति goes वापस परिचय 2,000 years, but early devices were not practical.
Since the late 1700s भाप इंजन have become a major source of mechanical power.
The first अनुप्रयोग यहूद निकालना जल from mines.
In 1781 James Watt patented a steam engine that उत्पादित निरन्तर rotative motion.
These 10 hp engines enabled a wide range of निर्माण मशीनरी to be संचालित.
The engines could be sited anywhere that water and कोयले or लकडी ईंधन could be प्राप्त.
By 1883, इंजन कि could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
भाप इंजन could भी be लागू to वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन and the railway locomotives which are commonly just called steam engines outside America.
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, allowing कारखानों to locate where water power was unavailable.
Today steam turbines generate परिचय 90 % of the इलेक्ट्रिक शक्ति in the United States using a variety of heat sources.
Steam engines are बाह्य दहन इंजन, where the working fluid is separate from the combustion products.
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar शक्ति, नाभिकीय शक्ति or geothermal energy may be used.
The ideal ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल प्रयुक्त to analyze this process is called the Rankine cycle.
In the cycle, water is heated into steam in a बॉयलर जबतक it पहुँच a high pressure.
When expanded through पिस्टन्स or turbines, mechanical work is done.
The reduced-pressure steam is then condensed and उत्तेजित वापस into the boiler.
In general usage, the term steam engine can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि. ) ऐसे as रेल भाप locomotives and portable engines, or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone, as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine.
specialized डिवाइस ऐसे as भाप hammers और भाप pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied from a separate boiler.
A मिल इंजन इससे stott Park Bobbin Mill, Cumbria, England
A steam locomotive in Germany.This class of engine was निर्मित in 1942 – 1950 और संचालित commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the third official single इससे rapper ludacris ' एल्बम शब्द of mouf.
The सिंगल सुविधाएँ Mystikal and I-20.
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 बनाना it ludacris 's पहला शीर्ष टेन hit on the चार्ट, it भी reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo Maicol & Manuel sampled the सोंग on `` होय me levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo.
The song is also featured in एपीसोड 2, श्रेणी एक of अंग्रेजों टीन comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also used by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar montel vontavious पोर्टर दौरान उसके छोटी कार्यावधि in Ring of Honor.
It was भी प्रयुक्त लिये अप्रैल शिकारी in various Independent circuits.
It was featured in the movie ATL अभिनीत t.i., और ' hancock, ' although in the latter, the clean version was used.
A snippet of the song is played during traffic reports on many radio stations, usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
रिटायर्ड एनबीए स्टार और अभी ईएसपीएन विश्लेषक jalen Rose is featured in the music video.
The song रै महरूम covered by चट्टान band Start Trouble, on their album Every Solution Has Its Problem.
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the characters Jay and Neil took होगा on a 'pussy पैट्रोल ' in jay 's रेड निसान Micra.
It was sampled by लड़की बात on the पहला track of his album All Day, `` Oh No ''.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms, और उनके territories और dependencies, और सिर of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और, in कुछ of her realms, carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became सिर of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा और संत किट्स and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया रै reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth was born in लंदन और शिक्षित privately at home.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii, from which time she was the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has चार children : चार्ल्स, ऐनी, एंड्रयू, और एडवर्ड.
Her coronation service took place in 1953 और थी the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in उसके realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके चांदी, सुनहरी, और डायमंड jubilees in 1977, 2002, और 2012, क्रमशः.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her पिता at 56, the हत्या of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ, रब माउंटबेटन, the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, Diana, Princess of Wales, and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments, लकिन support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
Christianity is the largest religion listed by australians in the नेशनल census.
In the 2011 Census, 61.1 % of australians were listed as Christian.
Australia has no official state religion and the Australian संविधान protects स्वतंत्रता of धर्म.
The presence of Christianity in Australia began with the आगमन of the पहला बेड़े of अंग्रेजों convicts in 1788.
the धर्म grew to खाता लिये 96.1 % of the नेशनल population at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901.
The Anglican गिरिजाघर of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( formerly ज्ञात as the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986, when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia.
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the population have diversified the जनसांख्यिकी of धर्म in ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as ईसाई in 2011, the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ), with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and there are large and growing पेंटेकोस्टल समूह, ऐसे as सिडनी 's hillsong Church.
The festivals of Easter और क्रिसमस हैं पब्लिक holidays in Australia.
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and Christian organisations हैं अग्रणी non-government प्रदाताओं of स्वास्थ्य और welfare सेवाएं through संगठनों जैसे कैथोलिक स्वास्थ्य ऑस्ट्रेलिया, anglicare, unitingcare Australia, the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society.
Historically significant Australian Christians have included रेव dr जॉन dunmore लैंग, संत मरियम mackillop, कैथरीन हेलेन spence, पादरी दाउद unaipon, the रेवरेंड John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello बैपटिस्ट मंत्री और वर्तमान सीईओ of संसार दृष्टि ऑस्ट्रेलिया, फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन, जेसुइट इंसान अधिकारों वकील, कार्डिनल जार्ज pell, कैथोलिक archbishop of सिडनी, फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान anglican primate और archbishop of Brisbane, Kevin Rudd, former Labor Prime Minister, and Tony Abbott, leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party.
Charter creating कॉलेजिएट स्कूल, जिससे became yale College, October 9, 1701
Yale University is a निजी आइवी लीग research university located in New Haven, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of Connecticut, the university is the third-oldest संस्था of उच्चतर education in the United States.
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '', the institution traces इसके जड़ें to 17th-century clergymen जो sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` Yale कॉलेज '' to सम्मान a तोहफा इससे elihu yale, a governor of the British East India Company.
In 1861, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S. institution to पुरस्कार the phd. yale became a founding सदस्य of the संघ of American Universities in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the स्थापना of आवासीय colleges : 12 now exist and two more are planned.
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach and advise about 5,300 undergraduate और 6,100 ग्रैजुएट और पेशेवर students.
लगभग सब tenured professors सिखा undergraduate courses, more than 2,000 of which are offered annually.
The विश्वविद्यालयों 's एसेट शामिल an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion, the second-largest of any academic institution in the world.
Yale 's system of अधिक than दो दर्जन पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 million volumes.
49 Nobel laureates have महरूम संबद्ध साथ the University as students, faculty, and staff.
Yale has produced many notable alumni, including five U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, 19 u.S. परम् अदालत justices, और अनेक foreign heads of state.
At the graduate level, yale विधि स्कूल, yale स्कूल of आर्ट, और yale स्कूल of नाटक are consistently ranked the top programs in their field.
Yale Law School is the सबसे चयनात्मक law school in the United States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale bulldogs in the ncaa प्रभाग i आइवी League.
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the United States is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an खुशबूदार झाड़ी इससे the परिवार asteraceae, जिससे grows in arid और semi-arid शर्तें, throughout a range of cold desert, steppe, and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America.
The देशी नाम `` sagebrush '' is भी प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक related members of the genus Artemisia, such as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ).
Big sagebrush और अन्य artemisia प्रजाति हैं the प्रबल पौधे आरपार large portions of the Great Basin, covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states.
It is the राज्य flower of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides खाना और आवास लिये a किस्में of प्रजाति, ऐसे as ऋषि grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, pygmy rabbit, and mule deer.
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North America—especially for preventing संक्रमण in wounds, stopping आतंरिक bleeding, और treating headaches और जुकाम.
Chemically, the active medicinal constituents include camphor, terpenoids, और tannins.
Several major threats exist to sage brush ecosystems, including human settlements, conversion to agricultural जमीन, पशुधन चरने, हृदयरोग संयंत्र प्रजाति, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service offered by the अमरीकी ढूंढें इंजन कम्पनी Yahoo !
It was शुभारम्भ in 1997, और, according to comscore, Yahoo ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012.
Currently, Yahoo ! offers तीन संस्करण of याहू ! Mail.
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic '' continues the availability of the असली इंटरफ़ेस introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 शामिल a नई अजाक्स इंटरफ़ेस, drag-and-drop सुविधाएँ, improved search functionality, keyboard shortcuts, address auto-complete, tabs, and other updated features.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! मेल, जिससे शामिल सुधार to the design, performance, search functionality, and Facebook integration.
In May 2011, beta testing for the new version stopped, और it became the डिफॉल्ट इंटरफ़ेस for Yahoo ! Mail.
In early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in जवाब to heated प्रतियोगिता in the फ़्री web-mail मार्केट खण्ड.
On June 27, 2009, याहू ! मेसेंजर थी एकीकृत with Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized शहरी बंदरगाहों नगर और the county seat of Pierce County, Washington, United States.
The city is on वॉशिंगटन 's puget ध्वनि, दक्षिणपश्चिम of सिएटल, northeast of the state capital, Olympia, and northwest of Mount Rainier National Park.
The population was 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest नगर in the puget Sound area and the third largest in the state.
Tacoma also serves as the बीच of कारोबार कार्यकलाप लिये the South Sound region, which has a population of around 1 million people.
Tacoma adopted its name after the nearby Mount Rainier, originally पुकारा माउंट Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the क्षेत्रफल थी चुनी to be the पश्चिमी टर्मिनस of the उत्तरी Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century.
The decision of the railroad was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर, शुरुआत Bay.
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` When rails मिलें sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of टकोमा, a बीच of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार on the प्रशांत Coast and Washington state 's largest port.
Like most central cities, Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th सदी as a परिणाम of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the downtown core include the University of Washington टकोमा ; टकोमा कड़ी, the पहला आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रिक लाइट रेल सेवा in the राज्य ; the state 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront, the Thea Foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the 19th सदी, to the longshoremen of the 20th सदी, to the मजदूर Ready workers of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough, gritty image.
A song about Tacoma, `` Thrice All American '', by American singer-songwriter and former निवासी neko मामला, describes it as `` a dusty बूढ़ा गहना in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down ''.
tacoma-pierce काउंटी रै महरूम नामित one of the most livable areas in the country.
टकोमा थी भी recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th most walkable city in the country.
In कंट्रास्ट, the नगर is भी क्रमित as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, महिलाओं 's पत्रिका स्वः named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in the United States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City in America '', in भाग क्युकी of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक कार्यालयों आयोजित, और वॉशिंगटन राज्य गुजर a विधेयक in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is famous for the 1940 पतन of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge.
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego metropolitan area, the seventh largest city in Southern California, the fourteenth largest city in the State of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और the 77th-largest नगर in the संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of the 2010 census.
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the मैक्सिकन किनारा in the दक्षिण खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल, the नगर is at the बीच of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States.
chula विस्टा is so नामित क्युकी of इसके दर्शनीय location between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills.
Founded in the early 19th century, fast population growth has recently महरूम observed in the नगर.
As the दूसरी largest नगर in सैन डिएगो काउंटी, Chula Vista has quickly become a destination popular to many tourists.
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training centers and popular tourist destinations include क्रिकेट बेतार amphitheater, the chula विस्टा मरीना, और the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a system or method of describing जमीन, रियल प्रॉपर्टी ( in कंट्रास्ट to personal property ) or real estate.
The system has been used in इंग्लैण्ड लिये अनेक सदियां, और is स्टिल प्रयुक्त वहीँ in the परिभाषा of general boundaries.
By custom, it was applied in the असली तेरह colonies कि became the United States, and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law.
Typically the system uses physical features of the local भूगोल, साथ साथ दिशानिर्देश और दूरियाँ, to define and describe the boundaries of a parcel of land.
The boundaries are described in a running prose style, working around the parcel in sequence, from a point of beginning, returning back to the वही पाइंट ; compare साथ the मौखिक अनुष्ठान of धड़कन the bounds.
it may शामिल सन्दर्भ to अन्य adjoining parcels ( and their owners ), and it, in turn, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the time the description is compiled, it may have been marked on the मैदान साथ स्थाई स्मारक लगाई जहाँ वहीँ यहूद no suitable natural monuments.
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of each सीधा चलाएं, निर्दिष्ट by a अलहदा between the terminal points, and an orientation or direction.
A दिशा may be a सरल कम्पास bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary वर्णन, ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित watercourse, a स्टोन वॉल, an adjoining public road way, or an existing building.
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. farms ), and political subdivisions ( e.g. town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or would be far too महंगी, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 कूच 1727 ) थी an अंग्रेज़ी physicist और गणितज्ञ who is widely regarded as one of the most influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
उसके किताब philosophiæ naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy '' ), first published in 1687, laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics.
Newton also made seminal योगदान to प्रकाशिकी और साझा क्रेडिट with Gottfried Leibniz for the invention of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation कि वर्चस्व वैज्ञानिकों ' दृश्य of the शारीरिक universe for the next three centuries.
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth and that of celestial bodies could be वर्णित by the वही सिद्धान्त.
By deriving कॅप्लर 's कानून of ग्रहीय गति इससे उसके गणितीय वर्णन of गम्भीरता, Newton removed the last doubts about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of colour based on the observation that a prism decomposes श्वेत लाइट into the अनेक रंग of the दृश्य वर्णक्रम.
He also प्रतिपादित an empirical law of cooling and studied the speed of sound.
In addition to his work on the calculus, as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series, generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents, और विकसित न्यूटन 's विधि लिये approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of ट्रिनिटी कॉलेज और the दूसरी lucasian प्राध्यापक of गणित at the University of Cambridge.
He was a devout लकिन अपरंपरागत ईसाई और, unusually लिये a सदस्य of the कैम्ब्रिज संकाय, he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England, perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences, Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology, but most of his work in those areas remained अप्रकाशित जबतक long बाद उसके मौत.
In his later life, Newton became अध्यक्ष of the royal Society.
He also परोसा the अंग्रेजों सरकारी as वार्डन and Master of the Royal Mint.
प्रोf. वाल्टर lewin explains Newton 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles all obey न्यूटन 's विधि of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts every other point mass with a force that is directly आंशिक to the उत्पाद of उनके masses और inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा between them.
( Separately it was shown that large spherically सममित masses आकर्षित और हैं आकर्षित as if all their mass were concentrated at their centers. )
This is a general शारीरिक विधि निकला इससे अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन called induction.
It is a part of शास्त्रीय यांत्रिकी और थी प्रतिपादित in न्यूटन 's कार्य philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 July 1687.
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society, Robert Hooke made a claim that Newton had obtained the inverse square law इससे उसे – देखिए इतिहास खण्ड नीचे. )
In आधुनिक भाषा, the विधि राज्य the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( n ), m1 और m2 in kilograms ( kg ), r in meters ( m ), and the constant G is approximately equal to.
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the कैवेंडिश प्रयोग conducted by the अंग्रेजों वैज्ञानिक हेनरी कैवेंडिश in 1798, although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G.
इस प्रयोग थी भी the पहला परीक्षण of न्यूटन 's theory of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 सालो बाद न्यूटन 's मौत, so none of न्यूटन 's calculations could उपयोग the मान of g ; बजाय he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of विद्युत शक्तियां, जिससे is प्रयुक्त to गणना the magnitude of electrical force between two charged bodies.
Both are inverse-square laws, in which force is inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the distance between the bodies.
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses, और the electrostatic निरंतर in प्लेस of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक constant.
Newton 's law has since been superseded by आइंस्टीन 's सिद्धान्त of सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity.
Relativity is required only when there is a need for extreme परिशुद्धता, or जब dealing साथ gravitation लिये अत्यधिक massive and dense objects.
White and red flags, representing इराकी और अमरीकी मौतों, बैठना in the ग्रास चतुष्कोण of The Valley Library on the Corvallis, Oregon, campus of Oregon State University.
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count प्रदर्शनी इससे 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती project ), the flags aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War. ''
( may 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न हथियारबंद समूह ऑपरेटिंग in the देश ) have आइये in अनेक फ़ॉर्म, और the सटीकता of the सूचना available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly.
The table below summarizes विभिन्न estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures.
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition, the death टोल is carefully tracked और अद्यतनीकृत रोज़, और the names और छायाचित्र of those killed in action as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A कुल of 4,486 u.S. सैनिको were killed in Iraq between 2003 and 2012.
Regarding the इराकी, however, information on both military and civilian casualties is both less precise and less consistent.
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the scene, from officials of involved संगठन, और इससे समूह कि summarize सूचना on incidents reported in the news media.
The शब्द `` हताहत `` in इसके सबसे सामान्य भाव includes the injured as well as the dead.
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is not obvious what should be counted : चाहिए तभी those चोटों गंभीर पर्याप्त to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries caused by दुर्घटनाओं गिनती, or चाहिए the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different परिभाषाएं may arrive at बहुत अलग संख्याएँ, और sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( डकैती of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a thief and brigand जो preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by horse, as compared to a footpad जो travelled और robbed on foot.
Mounted लुटेरों यहूद widely माना to be socially superior to footpads.
Such robbers operated in Great Britain and Ireland from the elizabethan era जबतक the early 19th century.
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms शामिल `` शूरवीरों of the सड़क '' और `` सज्जनों of the road. ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen were road एजेंटों in कुछ उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं जबकि in अन्य मामले the पद is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
In the same time period in Australia, they were known as bushrangers.
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball खिलाड़ी जो निभाई पाइंट गार्ड लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स of the नेशनल Basketball Association ( NBA ).
After winning championships in ऊँची स्कूल और कॉलेज, जॉनसन थी चयनित first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers.
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार in उसके रुकी season, and won four more championships with the Lakers during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV, but लौटे to खेल in the 1992 all-star खेल, जीतना the all-star MVP Award.
After protests from his fellow players, he retired again for four सालो, लकिन लौटे in 1996, at आयु 36, to खेल 32 खेल for the Lakers before retiring for the third and final time.
Johnson 's करियर उपलब्धियाँ शामिल तीन एनबीए mvp पुरस्कार, nine NBA Finals appearances, twelve All-Star games, and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations.
He led the league in regular-season assists चार टाइम्स, और is the एनबीए 's all-time नेता in average assists per game, at 11.2.
जॉनसन थी a सदस्य of the `` सपना टोली ``, the U.S. basketball team that won the Olympic gold medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, जॉनसन formed the जादू जॉनसन all-stars, a barnstorming टोली कि travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest खिलाड़ी in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996, और enshrined in the बास्केट Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was रेटेड the महानतम एनबीए पाइंट गार्ड of all time by ESPN in 2007.
उसके दोस्ती और फंसने साथ बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स स्टार लैरी बर्ड, जिसको he faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his रिटायरमेंट, जॉनसन रै महरूम an एडवोकेट लिये hiV/ एड्स रोकथाम और सुरक्षित sex, as खूब as an उद्योगों, philanthropist, broadcaster and motivational speaker.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years, and was part of a group कि खरीदा the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स in 2012.
Allium cells in different phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and prokaryotes ( सही )
The cell is the basic संरचनात्मक, कार्यात्मक and biological unit of all known living organisms.
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing ( except virus, which consists तभी इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन और lipids ), and is often called the building block of life.
It consists of a जीवद्रव्य enclosed भीतर a झिल्ली, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
Organisms can be classified as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a सिंगल कोशिका ; सहित most bacteria ) or multicellular ( including plants and animals ).
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from प्रजाति to प्रजाति, इंसानो contain परिचय 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 और 100 micrometres और इसलिए are visible only under the microscope.
the कोशिका थी discovered by Robert Hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob schleiden और theodor schwann, राज्य कि सब जीवों हैं रचित of एक or अधिक कोशिकाएं, कि सब कोशिकाएं आइये इससे preexisting cells, that vital functions of an organism occur within cells, and that all cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
Cells emerged on ग्रह धरती at least 4.0–4.3 billion years ago.
The word cell comes from the Latin cella, अर्थ `` छोटी रूम ''.
The वर्णनात्मक पद लिये the smallest जीना biological ढांचा थी coined by रॉबर्ट Hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in.
Grecian Formula is a men 's hair coloring उत्पाद in the United States.
Canada and Europe previously बैन the उत्पाद क्युकी of इसके use of lead acetate.
A motor scooter 's front with an impractical number and variety of headlamps, added लिये सजावटी उद्देश्य
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the सामने of a गाडी to लाइट the road ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark, despite तभी 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness.
While it is common for the term हेडलाइट to be प्रयुक्त interchangeably in अनौपचारिक चर्चा, headlamp is the पद लिये the यंत्र itself, while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device.
Other vehicles, such as trains and aircraft, are required to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps are often used on साइकिल, और हैं जरूरी in कुछ jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a बैटरी or a छोटी विद्युत सृजनकर्ता on the wheel.
Additionally automotive night vision प्रणालियों कार्य to संपूरक headlamps.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for महिलाओं और लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and आचरण, whereas in अन्य वे may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best ज्ञात as whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in The रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, वो निभाई oda mae भूरा, a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, The Player, Made in America, How Stella Got Her नाली वापस, लड़की, बाधित और चूहा Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation, as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards for her कार्य in टेलीविज़न.
She was co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She has been the मॉडरेटर of the दिन talk show The View since 2007.
Goldberg has a ग्रैमी, दो दिन emmys, दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a Tony ( for production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार, चार People 's Choice Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is एक of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the संसार, और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the संयुक्त States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest पेशेवर खेल ट्रॉफी in उत्तर अमेरिका, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams and, through a series of expansions, contractions, और relocations, the लीग is अभी रचित of 30 क्रियाशील franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred थी कनाडा, हालांकि the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 ऋतु, the लीग resumed खेल अंतर्गत a नई सामूहिक bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in terms of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the संसार और फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased दोनो क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's जारी विस्तार इससे छह to तीस क्लब चूंकि 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the लार्वा of a मक्खी ( अनुक्रम diptera ) ; it is लागू in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and Crane flies.
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as such ; in अनेक मानक पाठ्यपुस्तकों of कीटविज्ञान it करता not appear in the index at all.
In many non-technical ग्रन्थ the पद is प्रयुक्त लिये insect larvae in general.
Other sources have coined उनके अपना परिभाषाएं ; for example : ``...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared... '' और ``... लागू to the footless larvae of Dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other भूमिकाएँ, विभिन्न प्रजाति हैं prominent in रीसाइक्लिंग carrion और कचरा, attacking फसलों और foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.
Herod (, Hordos, Greek :, Hērōdēs ), also known as Herod the ग्रेट ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in जेरिको ), was a Roman client king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is वर्णित as `` a madman जो murdered his own family and a great many rabbis ``.
He is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके colossal भवन प्रोजेक्ट in जेरूसलम और elsewhere, including his expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
Important details of his biography are gleaned from the works of the 1st सदी ce roman–jewish इतिहासकार Josephus Flavius.
The Romans made Herod 's बेटे, हेरोदेस archelaus, ethnarch of judea, samaria, और idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman सम्राट augustus जो तब संयुक्त samaria, judea उचित और idumea into iudaea प्रांत under rule of a prefect until age 41.
Herod 's अन्य बेटे हेरोदेस antipas थी tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens उपस्थित on रेड रक्त cells and IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most important blood type system ( or रक्त समूह प्रणाली ) in इंसान रक्त transfusion.
The associated anti-A and anti-B antibodies are usually IgM antibodies, which are usually produced in the first years of जीवन by sensitization to पर्यावरणीय substances ऐसे as खाना, bacteria, and viruses.
ABO blood types are also उपस्थित in कुछ अन्य पशु, लिये example apes such as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on Tuesday ( link will प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent city located in and विभाजित by ओकलैंड और वेन काउंटी in the U.S. state of Michigan.
The area is a उपनगरीय of Metropolitan Detroit.
The population थी 5,970 at the 2010 census.
Most of the city is in Oakland County, and is surrounded by the नगर of novi.
The Wayne काउंटी portion is घिरी by Northville Township.
northville is परोसा by Northville Public Schools.
The city is located पूर्वोत्तर of ऐन arbor and northwest of Detroit.
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2, 1925 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री and vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous स्टेज plays और musicals, feature films, and many television programs.
She is ज्ञात लिये उसके प्रदर्शन of `` the महिलाओं जो लंच '' in स्टीफन sondheim 's 1970 musical Company, her 2001 one-woman show, Elaine Stritch at Liberty, and recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been मनोनीत लिये the टोनी पुरस्कार five times in various categories.
Stritch is also a three-time एमी Award winner.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of यंग अपराधियों sentenced to कार्य in a जातियाँ सेवा कार्यक्रम, where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm.
The series opened in 2009 and is फिलहाल जारी.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan Rheon, Lauren Socha, Nathan Stewart-Jarrett, and Robert sheehan हैं introduced as अलीशा डैनियल्स, साइमन bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
Sheehan left बाद the दूसरी श्रेणी, replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the fourth series was announced Rheon, Thomas and socha था बाएँ उनके roles and would be replaced by new characters Karla Crome, Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex respectively.
Midway through the fourth series, Stewart-Jarrett left while Natasha o'keeffe joined the डाल as ऐबी Smith.
On 19 March 2013, Channel 4 announced at a press event that they have renewed Misfits for a पांचवां और फाइनल श्रेणी containing 8 episodes.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the तभी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the पैकर्स ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the fourth game of the 1992 season, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18, 2009 as उनके starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 लगातार starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और दो सुपर कटोरी दिखावे ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most career interceptions thrown, most consecutive starts by a player, most consecutive starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे करियर victories as a starting क्वार्टरबैक, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the Gunslinger ''.
The following is a सूची of notable aircraft hijackings around the world.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3, commonly known as the web ), is a प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा via the अंतरजाल.
With a web browser, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, videos, and other मल्टीमीडिया, और navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 लिये कया होता आखिरकार become the संसार चौड़ी वेब.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त राज्य, ज्ञात लिये उसके proclivity लिये opposing his parties ' leadership, and specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Minnesota Law School, Morse स्थानांतरित to ऑरेगॉन in 1930 और began शिक्षण at the University of Oregon School of Law.
During World War II he was निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an स्वतंत्र after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
जबकि an स्वतंत्र, he नियत a रिकार्ड लिये performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate.
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955, और थी reelected twice जबकि a सदस्य of कि पार्टी.
Morse बना a ब्रैड चलाएं लिये the Democratic Party 's presidential nomination in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of only दो सीनेटरों जो opposed the गल्फ of tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे प्राधिकृत the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war.
He continued to speak out विरूद्ध the युद्ध in the ensuing सालो, और खोया उसके 1968 बोली लिये reelection to bob Packwood, who criticized his strong opposition to the war.
Morse made two more bids लिये reelection to the Senate before his death in 1974.
in संसदीय कार्यविधि, a गति to तालिका has two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to table usually means the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to मूव लिये postponement of consideration ; a proposal to suspend consideration of a pending motion.
Much less often, it means a motion to `` put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
in the बाकी of the english-speaking संसार ऐसे as the संयुक्त किंगडम, to तालिका अर्थात् to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the table ) : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the American and the British dialects have the भाव of `` to तालिका '' as to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to कारण [ the topic ] to lie on the table.
The difference is the idea of what the table is for, that of a shelf बंद to the पक्ष, or an क्रियाशील work bench.
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work बेंच, साथ the टॉपिक होने the बीच of ध्यान, considered and discussed by all until it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf, अभिलेख, or long-term भंडार यंत्र, जहाँ the टॉपिक रै महरूम disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' और leaving it there.
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 अमरीकी 3d कंप्यूटर animated comedy-drama prison film, and the third installment in the Toy Story series.
it थी उत्पादित by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Directed by Lee Unkrich, the film was released विश्वव्यापी इससे जून through अक्तूबर in डिज़्नी डिजिटल 3-D, RealD, and IMAX 3D.
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released theatrically साथ dolby घेर 7.1 sound.
The screenplay was written by Michael arndt, जबकि unkrich लिखा the स्टोरी साथ साथ जॉन lasseter और Andrew Stanton, respectively director and co-writer of the two first films.
The plot focuses on the toys Woody, Buzz Lightyear, and their friends dealing with an uncertain future as उनके मालिक, एंडी, prepares to छोड़ लिये कॉलेज.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris, John Ratzenberger, Wallace shawn, जेफ़ pidgeon, jodi बेंसन, R. ली ermey, जॉन मॉरिस, और लॉरी metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films.
Jim Varney, who played Slinky Dog in the first two films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed Lenny और wheezy, दोनो died पहले उत्पादन began on खिलौना स्टोरी 3.
the भूमिका of slinky श्वान थी लिया over by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ), while Ranft 's characters and various others were written out of the story.
New characters include performances by Ned beatty, टिमोथी डाल्टन, क्रिस्टन schaal, bonnie हंट, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North American gross for an एनिमेटेड फिल्मी unadjusted लिये महंगाई, और a बिग खोलने साथ an unadjusted सकल of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar film, as खूब as the highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड लिये a फिल्मी to have खोली in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2010, दोनो in the संयुक्त States and Canada, and worldwide.
In early August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ), और the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; बाद कि माह, खिलौना स्टोरी 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब time.
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best चित्र, बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा, और बेहतरीन ध्वनि Editing.
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty and the Beast and Up ) to be मनोनीत लिये अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन चित्र.
It won the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड Feature and Best Original Song.
John Levell Starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी रिटायर्ड पेशेवर basketball shooting guard.
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190 पाउंड दौरान उसके एनबीए playing career.
Although he थी नहीं drafted in the 1988 एनबीए ड्राफ्ट बाद उपस्थित चार कॉलेजों in his native Oklahoma, including Oklahoma State University, he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices, such as mobile फोन, डिजिटल कैमरे, gps नेविगेशन डिवाइस, और tablet computers.
The Secure Digital standard is कायम by the sd कार्ड संघ ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी and more than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format includes four card families available in तीन अलग रूप कारकों.
The four परिवारों हैं the असली standard-capacity ( sdsc ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form कारकों हैं the असली आकार, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of रूप कारकों और device families.
electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी card in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with नए संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer greater capacity than the मेजबान यंत्र can handle.
A नए कार्ड may उपयोग a संचिका system the host device can not navigate.
Use of an SDIO कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda had standardized a method of doing so.
The SDA uses अनेक trademarked लोगो to enforce अनुपालन साथ its specifications and assure users of compatibility.
Hugh जॉन mungo ग्रान्ट ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a British actor and film producer.
He has received a Golden ग्लोब, a bafta, और an Honorary César.
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25 नाट्य रिलीज विश्वव्यापी.
Grant achieved international stardom after appearing in रिचर्ड कर्टिस 's कामयाब चार Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this breakthrough role as a frequent cinematic persona during the 1990s, delivering comic प्रदर्शन in मुख्यधारा films जैसे मिकी ब्लू आँखें ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st century, he had established himself as a अग्रणी man skilled साथ a satirical कॉमिक talent.
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), About A Boy ( 2002 ), प्रेम दरअसल ( 2003 ), और अमरीकी dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later played against प्रकार साथ अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches उसके भूमिकाएँ जैसे a अक्षर actor, and attempts to make his acting appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed संवाद डिलीवरी और फेशियल expressions.
The entertainment media 's coverage of Grant 's life off the बिग स्क्रीन रै प्रायः निष्प्रभ his work as a thespian.
He has महरूम गायन परिचय उसके अनादर लिये the व्यवसायिक of एक्टिंग, and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that एक्टिंग is नहीं a सच्चा कॉलिंग लकिन बस a जॉब he fell into.
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 ad ) थी an इम्पीरियल राजवंश of चीन, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was संस्थापित by the विद्रोही नेता लियू बंग, known posthumously as Emperor Gaozu of Han.
It was briefly interrupted by the Xin राजवंश ( 9–23 ad ) of the former regent Wang Mang.
इस interregnum separates the हान into two periods : the Western Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over four centuries, the काल of the हान राजवंश is माना a golden age in Chinese history.
To this दिन, चीन 's बहुमत जातीय समूह refers to itself as the `` Han people '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The Han Empire was divided into areas directly नियंत्रित by the सेंट्रल सरकारी, known as commanderies, and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms धीरे खोया सब vestiges of उनके स्वतंत्रता, विशेषकर following the विद्रोह of the Seven States.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic कनफेडरेशन जिससे वर्चस्व the पूर्वी Eurasian Steppe, defeated the Han army in battle in 200 BC.
Following the defeat, a political marriage alliance was negotiated in जिससे the हान became the de facto inferior partner.
When, despite the सन्धि, the xiongnu जारी to रेड हान सीमायें, Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them.
The ultimate Han victory in these wars आखिरकार मजबूर the xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries.
ये अभियान विस्तारित हान sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network known as the Silk Road, which reached as far as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the xiongnu into दो स्पर्धा राष्ट्र, the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी Xiongnu, and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories north of Han 's borders यहूद जल्दी overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 AD, the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics, engaging in violent power struggles between the विभिन्न consort clans of the empresses और सम्राज्ञी dowagers, causing the Han 's ultimate downfall.
Imperial authority was भी seriously challenged by विशाल daoist धार्मिक समाजों जिससे instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
Following the मौत of सम्राट ling ( r. 168–189 ad ), the राजमहल हिजड़े suffered होलसेल नरसंहार by सैन्य officers, allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire.
When Cao Pi, King of Wei, usurped the throne from सम्राट xian, the हान राजवंश ceased to मौजूद.
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy first established during the झोऊ राजवंश ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage issued by the सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119 bc remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ).
To pay for its military campaigns and the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories, the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period, और the खोया आय थी recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs.
The सम्राट थी at the pinnacle of Han society.
He presided over the Han government but shared power साथ दोनो the धामों और नियुक्त मंत्रियों who came largely from the scholarly gentry class.
From the शासनकाल of सम्राट wu onward, the चाइनीज अदालत officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu.
This policy endured until the fall of the चिंग राजवंश in 1911 AD.
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances, including papermaking, the nautical steering rudder, the use of negative numbers in mathematics, the raised-relief मैप, the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary गोला लिये खगोलशास्त्र, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( also called Tourette 's syndrome, Tourette 's disorder, Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, GTS or, more commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric विकार साथ onset in बाल्यकाल, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically wax and wane, can be suppressed temporarily, और हैं preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is defined as part of a वर्णक्रम of टिक विकार, जिससे शामिल transient and chronic tics.
Tourette 's थी एकबार माना a विरल और विचित्र सिंड्रोम, सबसे प्रायः संबद्ध with the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ), but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition, but it is not always correctly identified because most cases are mild और the गंभीरता of tics decreases लिये सबसे children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is उच्चतर, साथ the अधिक आम tics of eye blinking, coughing, throat clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, और Tourette 's does not adversely affect intelligence or life expectancy.
Genetic and environmental factors play a role in the etiology of Tourette 's, but the exact causes are unknown.
In most cases, दवा is unnecessary.
There is no effective treatment for every case of tics, but certain medications और therapies can सहायता जब उनके use is warranted.
Education is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of कोई उपचार plan, and explanation and reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the व्यक्तिगत than the tics कि हैं the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident, Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a फ्रेंच चिकित्सक और neurologist, जो प्रकाशित an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885.
Sunbeam बैज.
Sunbeam was a marque पंजीकृत by जॉन marston Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
The company first made bicycles, then motorcycles and cars इससे the लेट 19th सदी जबतक परिचय 1936, और लागू the marque to all three forms of transportation.
The company also manufactured aero engines in the पहला संसार युद्ध और 647 वायुयान during the Second World War.
A Sunbeam was the first British car to जीत a ग्रैंड प्रिक्स रेस, और नियत a number of land speed records.
The company went into receivership in 1935 and was खरीदा by the rootes समूह, which continued to use the Sunbeam marque.
Fox News Channel ( fnc ), भी ज्ञात as फॉक्स न्यूज, is a केबल न्यूज चैनल स्वामित्व by the फॉक्स entertainment Group, a subsidiary of News Corporation.
As of April 2009, the channel was available to 102 million households in the संयुक्त राज्य और to दर्शक internationally, प्रसारण primarily from its New York studios.
The channel was created by Australian-American media mogul Rupert मर्डोक, जो नियुक्त पूर्व एनबीसी कार्यपालिका रोजर ailes as its founding CEO.
It शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 7, 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers.
It grew during the late 1990s and 2000s to become the dominant cable news network in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Critics have stated कि फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल promotes रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक positions and biased reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, and reporters at Fox News Channel have responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और राजनैतिक commentary operate independently of प्रत्येक other, and have denied any bias in news reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( दूर इससे the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो the mandibular दूसरी premolars of the मुँह लकिन mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) arch of the mouth, and generally opposes the ऊर्ध्वहनु ( अपर ) पहला molars और the ऊर्ध्वहनु 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The फलन of इस molar is समान to कि of सब molars in regard to grinding being the principal action during mastication, commonly known as chewing.
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ), two lingual ( पक्ष निकटतम the जीभ ), और एक distal.
There are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the स्थाई mandibular molars, भी हालांकि उनके फलन are similar.
The स्थाई mandibular molars are not considered to have any teeth that precede it.
Despite being नामित molars, the पतझड़ी molars हैं followed by permanent premolars.
In the universal system of notation, the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a अक्षर लिखा in अपरकेस.
The right deciduous mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` s '', और the बाएँ one is known as `` L ''.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संकेतन has a different system of notation.
Thus, the right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` 84 '', and the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` 74 ''.
In the सार्वभौमिक प्रणाली of संकेतन, the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a number.
The सही स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is known as `` 30 '', and the left one is known as `` 19 ''.
The पामर संकेतन उपयोग a क्रमांक in संयोजन with a symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is found.
For this दाँत, the बाएँ और सही पहला molars होता have the वही number, `` 6 '', but the right one would have the symbol, `` ┐ '', over it, while the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a अलग क्रमांकन प्रणाली than the पिछला दो, और the सही स्थाई mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '', and the left one is known as `` 36 ''.
mandibular प्राथमिक पहला molars usually have four pulp horns.
The first molar is usually the पहला स्थाई दाँत to erupt और रै वयस्क undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar रै पाँच पुलिन : the mesiobuccal ( mb, toward midline और गाल ), mesiolingual ( ml, toward midline और tongue ), distolingual ( DL, away from midline and towards tongue ), distobuccal ( DB, away from midline and toward cheek ), and distal ( D, away from midline ), listed in order of decreasing size.
Listed in order of decreasing height they are : ML, DL, DF, MF, and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second निम्नतर molar in an Argentinean child.
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ), the mandibular पहला molar is pentagonal ( पाँच तरफा ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual, साथ the sides being the buccal surface, the mesial surface, the lingual surface, distal surface, and the distobuccal surface.
The occlusal सतह रै चार डोले.
The central groove is not straight but runs down the center of the tooth mesially to distally और contains चार गड्ढों ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
the distobuccal नाली रनों इससे the distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल groove distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
The lingual groove रनों इससे the अधिक distal of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps.
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the central pits in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the buccal सतह between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit.
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account for the locations of the buccal और lingual डोले ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal view ), two roots are present.
The distal root is generally straighter, हालांकि both often have a slight distal curvature.
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal सम्पर्क the सटा दांत और हैं स्तिथ at the जंक्शन of the occlusal and middle thirds of the crown.
The फ्लोरिडा विधानमंडल is the दो घरों that act as the state legislature of the U.S. state of Florida.
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida, '' composed of a सीनेट और हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
The विधानमंडल is seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee.
Stained कांच चित्रण of Daniel interceding with Arioch, the king 's guard.
Arioch had been charged with हत्या सब the हिकमत मेन बाद वे यहूद not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the दूसरी अध्याय of the Book of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible.
The chapter 's सोर्स टेक्स्ट is predominantly written in Aramaic.
According to the text, Nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of बाबुल जो is troubled by his dreams.
He demands an निर्वचन for his dreams or will have his mystic interpreters executed.
डेनियल seeks दैवी अक्ल to interpret the king 's dreams and praises God with a short psalm.
God gives Daniel a vision in the रात्रि to खुलासा the king 's dream.
Able to satisfy the king, डेनियल is प्रचारित over the पूरे province of Babylon.
One Comcast बीच, the मुख्यालय of comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
The old Comcast logo from 1969 to 1999, when it was replaced साथ the crescent logo.
The Comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment, सूचना और संचार products and services.
It is the largest cable operator, one of the biggest mass media, home Internet सेवा प्रदाता, और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य, providing केबल टेलीविज़न, ब्रॉडबैंड Internet, telephone service and in some areas home security ( including burglar alarms, surveillance cameras, fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia.
The company is headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate nbcuniversal इससे ge in जनवरी 2011, और began the प्रक्रम of खरीदना the remaining 49 % on February 12, 2013, at a cost of $ 16.7 billion.
It समाप्त the खरीदें on कूच 19, 2013.
Comcast also has significant holding in अनेक केबल संजाल ( including E !
Entertainment Television, Style संजाल, g4, the गोल्फ़ चैनल और एनबीसी खेल संजाल ), distribution ( ThePlatform ), and related businesses.
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for activities सहित इसके stance on जाल neutrality, as खूब as ग़रीब results on customer satisfaction surveys.
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of शार्प कांटे, or quills, कि बचाव and camouflage them from predators.
They are indigenous to the Americas, दक्षिणी एशिया, और अफ़्रीकी.
porcupines हैं the तीसरा largest of the rodents, behind the capybara and the beaver.
Most porcupines हैं परिचय long, साथ an long tail.
Weighing, they are rounded, विशाल और slow.
Porcupines come in विभिन्न शेड्स of भूरा, gray, and the unusual white.
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme echidnas.
The common साही is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, twigs and green plants like skunk cabbage and clover और in the शीत it may खा छाल.
The North अमरीकी साही प्रायः climbs trees to find food.
The African साही is नहीं a climber and forages on the ground.
It is ज़्यादातर nocturnal, but will sometimes forage for food in the day.
Porcupines have become a pest in Kenya and are eaten as a delicacy.
The name साही आता इससे मध्य French porc espin ( spined pig ).
a क्षेत्रीय अमरीकी नाम लिये the animal is quill pig.
First page of US patent 129,843 for Improvement in lubricators लिये steam-engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2, 1844 – October 10, 1929 ) थी a ब्लैक canadian-american आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर, जो was notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born free in Canada, he returned as a five-year-old child with his family to the United राज्य in 1847, जहाँ he जिया लिये the बाकी of उसके life and became a US citizen.
Honda FCX Clarity, a hydrogen ईंधन कोशिका demonstration गाडी introduced in 2008
A हाइड्रोजन गाडी is a गाडी कि उपयोग hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive power.
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets, as खूब as ऑटोमोबाइल और अन्य परिवहन vehicles.
The power plants of such वाहनों बदलें the रासायनिक उर्जा of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical उर्जा either by burning हाइड्रोजन in an आतंरिक combustion engine, or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors.
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling transportation is a कुंजी तत्व of a प्रस्तावित हाइड्रोजन economy.
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on धरती और यूँ is not an energy source ; rather it is an energy carrier.
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels, लकिन it can be उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा, सौर, or नाभिकीय ) that are intermittent, too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants, using electrolysis of जल, हैं exploring technologies to उद्धार लागत कम पर्याप्त, और quantities great enough, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the potential of hydrogen energy for mobile uses.
the आकर्षण of using हाइड्रोजन as an उर्जा करेंसी is कि, if हाइड्रोजन is prepared बगैर using fossil fuel inputs, vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost, low energy content per unit volume, high tankage weights, very high storage vessel pressures, the storage, transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in वाहनों, the विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना कि होता be जरूरी to ईंधन वाहनों, and the inefficiency of production processes.
Sacramento is the पूंजी नगर of the U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the अमरीकी नदी in the उत्तरी portion of California 's expansive Central Valley.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest नगर in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento is the core सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento महानगर area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area, सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the 25th largest in the संयुक्त States.
Sacramento was cited by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John sutter, sr., उसके बेटे जॉन sutter, jr., और जेम्स W. मार्शल.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's फोर्ट, जिससे थी established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट, a commercial and agricultural center, and a terminus for wagon trains, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Davis is located in nearby Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned research hospital, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
The Apple Store is a chain of retail stores owned and operated by Apple Inc., dealing in कंप्यूटर और उपभोक्ता electronics.
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers, software, iPods, iPads, iPhones, third-party accessories, और अन्य उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स ऐसे as ठहराना tv.
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio for training with ठहराना उत्पाद ; सब स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली बार लिये तकनीकी support and repairs, as well as free workshops available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson, the पूर्व वरिष्ठ वाइस अध्यक्ष of खुदरा परिचालन, the Apple Stores have, according to an article in the New York Times, been responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 stores विश्वव्यापी, साथ वैश्विक बिक्री of billion in merchandise in 2011, and they lead the United States retail market in terms of sales per unit area.
Steven Paul `` स्टीव '' कार्य ( ; फ़रवरी 24, 1955 – अक्तूबर 5, 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor, best known as the co-founder, chairman, and CEO of Apple Inc.
Through Apple, he थी widely पहचाना as a charismatic पायोनियर of the निजी computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields, transforming `` one industry after another, from computers and smartphones to music and movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member of the board of निर्देशकों of the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी कम्पनी in 2006, जब Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven graphical user interface, which led to the सृष्टि of the ठहराना लिसा और, एक साल later, the Macintosh.
He also played a role in introducing the LaserWriter, one of the पहला widely उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र मुद्रक, to the market.
After a power संघर्ष साथ the फलक of निर्देशकों in 1985, कार्य बाएँ ठहराना और संस्थापित अगला, a कंप्यूटर मंच development company specializing in the higher-education and business markets.
In 1986, he acquired the computer ग्राफिक्स प्रभाग of लुकासफ़िल्म, जिससे was spun off as Pixar.
He was credited in Toy स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता.
He served as CEO and बहुमत shareholder जबतक डिज़्नी 's खरीदें of Pixar in 2006.
In 1996, after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system, Copland, Gil Amelio turned to NeXT Computer, and the NeXTSTEP platform became the न्यास लिये the मैक OS X.
कार्य लौटे to ठहराना as an advisor, and took control of the company as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought ठहराना इससे निकट bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
As the new CEO of the कम्पनी, कार्य oversaw the विकास of the imac, itunes, iPod, iPhone, and iPad, and on the services side, the company 's Apple Retail Stores, iTunes Store and the App Store.
The success of these products and services provided अनेक सालो of stable वित्तीय returns, and propelled Apple to become the world 's most valuable publicly traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the company is regarded by many टीकाकारों as एक of the महानतम turnarounds in कारोबार history.
In 2003, Jobs थी diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor.
Though it was initially treated, he reported a हार्मोन असंतुलन, underwent a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On medical leave for most of 2011, कार्य resigned in अगस्त कि साल, and was elected Chairman of the Board.
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic tumor on October 5, 2011.
Jobs received a क्रमांक of honors और पब्लिक मान्यता लिये उसके influence in the technology and music industries.
He has been referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` दूरदर्शी '', और रै महरूम वर्णित as the `` पिता of the डिजिटल क्रान्ति '', a `` निपुण of नवीनता '', and a `` design perfectionist ''.
Entrance to खण्ड ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम, with numerals still visible
Roman numerals, the numeric प्रणाली in प्राचीन रोम, उपयोग combinations of अक्षर from the Latin alphabet to signify values.
The numbers 1 to 10 can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और.
The Roman numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of Roman numerals जारी बाद the मनाही of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts by अधिक सुविधाजनक hindu-arabic numerals ; however इस process was gradual, and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day.
प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज Diagram
The effective नाभिकीय चार्ज ( प्रायः symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive charge experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom.
The term `` effective '' is used क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively चार्ज electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nuclear charge अनुभवी by the बाहरी शेल इलेक्ट्रॉन is also called the core charge.
It is संभावित to determine the शक्ति of the nuclear charge by looking at the oxidation number of the atom.
This is a list of एपीसोड इससे the Discovery Channel series, Storm Chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, with two lanes in each direction separated by a large grassy median, and with cross-traffic सीमित to overpasses और underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली, अंतरराज्यीय फ्रीवे प्रणाली, अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली, or बस the अंतरराज्यीय ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States.
The system is नामित लिये अध्यक्ष Dwight D. Eisenhower, who championed its formation.
Construction was authorized by the संघीय Aid Highway Act of 1956, and the original portion was completed 35 years later.
The network has since been extended, and, it था a कुल लंबाई of, बनाना it the संसार 's दूसरी longest after China 's., about one-quarter of all vehicle miles driven in the country use the Interstate system.
the लागत of निर्माण रै महरूम अनुमानित at $ 425 अरब ( in 2006 dollars ), making it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the United States into a world economic महाशक्ति और a अत्यधिक industrialized nation.
.eu is the country code top-level domain ( cctld ) लिये the यूरोपीय संघ ( EU ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domain is उपलब्धियाँ लिये संगठनों in and residents of EU member states.
The TLD is administered by eurid, a consortium originally consisting of the नेशनल cctld रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of बेल्जियम, Sweden, and Italy, joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic.
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations through a सूर्योदय काल, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
पूरा पंजीकरण started on 7 April 2006.
Meister means master in जर्मनी ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ).
The word is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is used for the current national, European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister, *europameister, weltmeister ).
Many modern day जर्मनी पुलिस शक्तियां use the title Meister.
During the Second World War, Meister was the उच्चतम आयोजिक रैंक of the ordnungspolizei.
meister रै महरूम उधार into English slang, where it is used in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who रै extensive सैद्धांतिक ज्ञान और व्यावहारिक skills in his profession, business, or some other kind of work or activity.
For example, a “puzzle-meister” होता be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example, “stubble-meister” for किसी साथ a छोटी, neat दाढ़ी or “crier-meister” लिये किसी जो प्रायः cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an अमरीकी live-action children 's टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय teenagers साथ super-powers, based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise, Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger.
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight कामयाबी, बनने a स्टेपल of 1990s पॉप culture in mere months.
Under the असली नाम, `` mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों '' the श्रेणी ran from 1993 to 1995 and spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie.
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and तत्व इससे the सुपर sentai श्रेणी gosei sentai dairanger और निंजा sentai kakuranger क्रमशः, though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from Dairanger for the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि तभी the mecha इससे kakuranger यहूद प्रदर्शित in the third season.
However the Kakuranger costumes were later used for the title characters of the mini-series, mighty morphin एलियन Rangers.
The series was उत्पादित by mmpr प्रोडक्शन्स, distributed by Saban Entertainment, and aired on Fox Kids.
the दिखाएँ 's merchandise was produced and distributed by Bandai Entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers franchise ; renaming the series every year after, and using costumes, props, and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as बदलना the डाल और कथानक.
While an overarching storyline would continue जबतक शक्ति रेंजरों खोया आकाशगंगा, subsequent series after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
In 2010, a re-version of mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों, साथ a नई logo, comic book-referenced graphics, and extra alternative special effects, was broadcast on ABC Kids, and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born एडगर पो ; जनवरी 19, 1809 – अक्तूबर 7, 1849 ) थी an American author, poet, editor and literary critic, considered part of the American Romantic Movement.
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre, Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story and is generally माना the आविष्कारक of the जासूस fiction विधा.
He is further credited with contributing to the उभरते विधा of विज्ञान fiction.
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living through writing alone, resulting in a financially मुश्किल जीवन और करियर.
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when his माँ died shortly बाद उसके पिता abandoned the परिवार.
Poe was taken in by John and Frances Allan, of रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, but they never formally adopted him.
He attended the University of Virginia for one सेमेस्टर लकिन बाएँ due to कमी of धन.
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at वेस्ट पाइंट, पो parted तरीके with the Allans.
His publishing career began विनम्रतापूर्वक, साथ an बेनाम संग्रहण of poems, Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a Bostonian ''.
Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next several years working for literary journals and periodicals, बनने ज्ञात लिये उसके अपना स्टाइल of साहित्यिक criticism.
His work मजबूर उसे to मूव among अनेक cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he शादीशुदा वर्जिनिया clemm, उसके 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe प्रकाशित उसके कविता, `` the Raven ``, to instant success.
His wife died of तपेदिक two years after its publication.
He began planning to produce his own journal, the penn ( बाद renamed the स्टाइलस ), though he died before it could be produced.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore ; the कारण of उसके मौत is अनजान और रै महरूम variously attributed to दारू, दिमाग जमघट, cholera, drugs, heart disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works बहकावे साहित्य in the संयुक्त राज्य और around the संसार, as well as in specialized fields, such as cosmology and cryptography.
Poe and his work appear throughout popular culture in साहित्य, म्यूज़िक, films, और टेलीविज़न.
A number of his homes are समर्पित संग्रहालय आज.
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award known as the Edgar Award for विशिष्ट कार्य in the रहस्य विधा.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they आवश्यकता up to सात गामा ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day.
A major component of their diet is the flesh of विशाल स्तनधारियों, जैसे इस African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro अर्थ 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores जबकि those कि भी consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food, and apart from the more general definition, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal सामग्री कि होता फर्क a facultative carnivore इससे an omnivore.
A carnivore that sits at the top of the foodchain is an apex predator.
Plants that capture and digest insects are पुकारा मांसाहारी पौधे.
Similarly, fungi that कैप्चर microscopic पशु are often called carnivorous fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are स्पेन, जो जीती the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight अलग नेशनल टीमों.
Brazil have won five times, and they are the तभी टोली to have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी, साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, और क़तर in 2022.
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama series created by Tim क्रिंग कि appeared on एनबीसी लिये चार सीज़न इससे सितंबर 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The series tells the stories of ordinary लोगों जो discover superhuman abilities, and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे, using multi-episode story arcs that build upon a larger, more encompassing arc.
The series was produced by Tailwind Productions in संघ साथ सार्वभौमिक मीडिया Studios.
It was filmed primarily in लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Four complete seasons aired, ending on फ़रवरी 8, 2010.
the critically acclaimed पहला ऋतु था a चलाएं of 23 एपीसोड and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the United States, receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years.
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 लाख दर्शक in the u.S., and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season.
नायक रै अर्जित a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार और nominations, सहित प्राइमटाइम Emmy Awards, Golden Globes, People 's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards.
An online extension of the series, नायक 360 अनुभव, बाद rebranded as नायक evolutions, was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology.
Other official Heroes media include magazines, action आंकड़े, tie-in और इंटरैक्टिव वेबसाइटों, a mobile game, a novel, clothing and other merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, NBC Digital Entertainment released a series of ऑनलाइन सामग्री लिये the गर्मियाँ, सहित अधिक असली वेब सामग्री, बेतार आईटीवी interactivity, graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes.
NBC announced Heroes रद्दीकरण on May 14, 2010.
afterward, the संजाल माना बनाना a टेलीविज़न खास इवेंट to conclude the श्रेणी ; however, on September 9, 2010, NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise.
Tim Kring then suggested कि the व्यापक आधार of नायक storylines अनुमत लिये the मताधिकार to वापसी लिये fans, but he did not specify when or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, TV Line reported कि एमएसएन थी in बाते to revive the series with a new cast.
John pierpont `` J. p. ''
Morgan ( April 17, 1837 – March 31, 1913 ) was an American financier, banker, philanthropist and आर्ट कलेक्टर जो वर्चस्व कॉरपोरेट वित्त और औद्योगिक consolidation during his time.
In 1892 मॉर्गन arranged the विलय of एडिसन सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक और Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form General Electric.
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company, he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company and several other स्टील और आयरन व्यवसायों, सहित संचित स्टील और तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by William Edenborn, to form the United States Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in Rome, Italy, in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75, leaving his fortune and business to his son, John pierpont `` जोकर '' मॉर्गन, jr., और bequeathing उसके mansion और विशाल किताब संग्रहण to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York.
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s, he and his partners had financial निवेश in अनेक विशाल corporations और यहूद अभियुक्त by आलोचकों of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He निर्देशित the बैंकिंग coalition that stopped the Panic of 1907.
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era, and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped रूपांतरण अमरीकी कारोबार.
This is a list of episodes of the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी.
The episodes were directed by शिगेरू ueda और उत्पादित by the yggdrasil Executive Committee which included Xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi, an अमर निजी अन्वेषक, as वो explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the अलौकिक कार्यक्रम that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
There are large time gaps in the internal chronology between the first पाँच एपीसोड, ranging इससे one to thirty years.
The six episodes were broadcast मासिक on at-x चैनल in जापानी, between February 3 and July 6, 2008.
Each एपीसोड is 45 minutes long.
Two pieces of theme music are used for the episodes : the opening theme `` alsatia '' और the ending theme `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed and performed by the जापानी metal band Galneryus.
The series was produced to commemorate the दसवाँ वर्षगांठ of the at-x network it originally aired on.
Aerial photo of FLETC, where US digital forensics मानकों यहूद विकसित in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes ज्ञात as डिजिटल forensic विज्ञान ) is a शाखा of forensic विज्ञान encompassing the रिकवरी and investigation of material found in digital devices, often in relation to computer crime.
The term digital forensics was originally प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये कंप्यूटर forensics लकिन has expanded to cover investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data.
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s, the अनुशासन विकसित in a haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s, and it was not until the early 21st century that national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a किस्में of applications.
The most common is to support or refute a परिकल्पना पहले दण्ड or सिविल ( as भाग of the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्कवरी process ) courts.
Forensics may भी विशेषता in the निजी सेक्टर ; ऐसे as दौरान आतंरिक कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches, relating to the प्रकार of डिजिटल डिवाइस शामिल ; कंप्यूटर forensics, network forensics, forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics.
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure, forensic imaging ( acquisition ) and analysis of digital media and the उत्पादन of a रपट into एकत्रित evidence.
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime, digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific suspects, confirm alibis or statements, determine intent, पहचानो स्त्रोत ( for example, in copyright cases ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual aim is to provide जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving जटिल time-lines or hypotheses.
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces.
A color मॉडल is an अमूर्त गणितीय मॉडल describing the रास्ता रंगों can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g. RGB and CMYK are color models ).
However, a color model with no associated mapping function to an निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेस is a अधिक or कम मनमानी रंग प्रणाली साथ no कनेक्शन to any globally understood system of color interpretation.
Adding a certain mapping function between the color मॉडल और a निश्चित सन्दर्भ रंग स्पेस परिणाम in a definite `` पदचिह्न '' within the reference color space.
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in combination with the color model, defines a नई रंग space.
For example, adobe आरजीबी और srgb हैं दो अलग निरपेक्ष रंग spaces, both based on the RGB model.
In the most जेनेरिक भाव of the परिभाषा above, color spaces can be defined without the use of a color model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in effect a given set of names or संख्याएँ जिससे हैं पारिभाषित by the अस्तित्व of a corresponding set of physical color swatches.
This article focuses on the गणितीय model concept.
Labor Day is an American federal holiday observed on the first Monday in सितंबर, कि मनाता the आर्थिक और सोशल योगदान of workers.
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer, जहाँ the insurer वादे to अदा a designated लाभार्थी a योग of धन ( the `` लाभ '' ) upon the मौत of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, other events ऐसे as टर्मिनल बीमारी or critical illness may also trigger payment.
The policy होल्डर typically pays a प्रीमियम, either regularly or as a lump sum.
Other expenses ( such as funeral खर्च ) हैं भी sometimes included in the benefits.
Life policies are विधिक अनुबंध और the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to limit the liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims relating to आत्महत्या, धोखाधड़ी, युद्ध, riot और सिविल commotion.
Life-based contracts tend to पतन into two major categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a लाभ in the इवेंट of निर्दिष्ट इवेंट, typically a lump sum payment.
A common form of this डिज़ाइन is पद बीमे.
Investment नीतियों – जहाँ the प्रमुख उद्देश्य is to facilitate the growth of capital by regular or single premiums.
Common forms ( in the US ) are पूरे जीवन, सार्वभौमिक जीवन and variable life policies.
{ { infobox Holiday
चाइनीज नई Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
Mitzi gaynor donahue ( born may 2, 1962 in yorba लिंडा, नारंगी काउंटी, California ) is an American actress, also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, सबसे of जिससे यहूद नहीं विशाल वाणिज्यिक successes.
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver, 1st & Ten, and as a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय एक्सपोज़र साथ उसके पहला प्रमुख टेलीविज़न भूमिका as सार्जेंट रीता ली तलवार in the टेलीविज़न series Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the अन्य हाफ of the दो `` sams '' for almost 5 years, cemented her popularity.
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo, Kapture gained वैश्विक मान्यता साथ साथ उसके costar चूंकि the दिखाएँ थी broadcast in several countries.
Sergeant Lance आखिरकार became लेफ्टिनेंट तलवार by the समय kapture left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time with the series, kapture briefly सत in the निदेशक 's कुर्सी, लिये दो episodes.
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings Season 1 DVD जिससे थी वितरित by लंगर खाड़ी entertainment और released in September 2004.
After a short hiatus from the screen following her exit from Silk Stalkings, Kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी स्क्रीन and USA Network.
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies, Perfect Crime ( based on a true स्टोरी, भी पुकारा छुपा और तलाश : the जोआन जेन्सेन स्टोरी ), जिससे भी starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard.
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and थिएटर प्रोडक्शन्स और था अनेक टेलीविज़न guest appearances.
Kapture also had a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on बेवाच as Alexis Ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless from 2002 through 2004, where वो थी credited as Mitzi Kapture Donahue, and starred in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
Her latest is a supporting role in परमेश्वर 's कानों, released in 2007.
Kapture is the आधिकारिक हस्ती प्रवक्ता for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society.
The Xbox 360 is the second video game console विकसित by और उत्पादित लिये microsoft और the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes with Sony 's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo 's Wii as भाग of the सातवाँ पीढी of वीडियो खेल consoles.
As of September 30, 2012, 70 million Xbox 360 consoles have महरूम बेची worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12, 2005, साथ विस्तृत लॉन्च और खेल सूचना divulged बाद कि माह at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक Entertainment Expo ( E3 ).
The console sold out completely upon release in all regions मगर in जापानी.
Several major features of the एक्सबॉक्स 360 हैं इसके एकीकृत एक्सबॉक्स सजीव सेवा कि allows खिलाड़ी to compete online ; download arcade games, game demos, trailers, TV shows, music and movies ; and its Windows Media Center multimedia capabilities.
The Xbox Live also offers access to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications.
At their E3 presentation on June 14, 2010, microsoft घोषित a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 कि होता ship on the same day.
The redesigned कंसोल is slimmer than the पिछला एक्सबॉक्स 360 मॉडल और features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi, TOSLINK S/PDIF optical audio output, five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port.
पुरानी मॉडल of the एक्सबॉक्स 360 have since been discontinued.
The first new कंसोल to be released features a 250 GB hard drive, while a later, less expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage.
backpack may भी refer to a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
a आधुनिक backpack
Swiss army backpack ca. 1960
एकीकृत तुमको frame.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, pack ) is, in its simplest form, a cloth sack carried on one 's back और secured साथ दो straps कि go over the कन्धों, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on only one shoulder strap.
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying कोई sort of उपकरण, क्युकी of the सीमित क्षमता to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ), usually offload the largest भाग ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded हिप belts, leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the hips are stronger than the shoulders, and also increases agility और संतुलन, चूंकि the लोड यात्राएँ nearer the wearer 's अपना बीच of mass.
In ancient times, the backpack was used as a means to carry the hunter 's larger game and other प्रकार of शिकार और as a रास्ता of easier हस्तांतरण लिये other materials.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters would dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the एनिमल around, प्रत्येक एक पैकिंग the मांस into अनेक wrappings और तब into बैग which they placed on to their backs.
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) and sewn together by the intestines of said animals, जिससे यहूद woven साथ tightly to मेक a sturdy thread-like material.
Mexico ( ; ; ), officially the United Mexican States ( ), is a संघीय संवैधानिक गणतंत्र in North America.
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by ग्वाटेमाला, बेलीज़, और the caribbean समुद्र ; और on the ईस्ट by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( over 760,000 sq mi ), मैक्सिको is the पांचवां largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world.
With an estimated जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 लाख, it is the संसार 's eleventh सबसे populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one राज्य और a संघीय District, the capital city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec, the toltec, the teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans.
In 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its base in méxico-tenochtitlan, जिससे थी administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory would eventually become मैक्सिको following मान्यता of the colony 's independence in 1821.
The post-independence period was characterized by आर्थिक अस्थिरता, the mexican-american War and territorial cession to the United States, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910, जिससे culminated साथ the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान and the emergence of the country 's current political system.
Elections आयोजित in जुलाई 2000 चिह्नित the पहला समय that an opposition party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party.
Since 2006 the देश रै महरूम in the midst of a drug war which has caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico रै एक of the world 's largest economies, and is considered both a regional power and middle power.
In जोड, मैक्सिको थी the पहला लैटिन अमरीकी सदस्य of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since 1994 ), and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank.
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized देश और an उभरते शक्ति.
it रै the fourteenth largest नाममात्र GDP and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) partners, especially the United States of America.
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites with 31, and in 2007 was the दसवाँ सबसे visited देश in the संसार साथ 21.4 लाख अंतरराष्ट्रीय आमद प्रति year.
Babe Ruth holds the एमएलबी करियर slugging प्रतिशत record (.690 ).
In baseball आंकडे, slugging प्रतिशत ( abbreviated SLG ) is a popular measure of the power of a hitter.
It is calculated as कुल bases विभाजित by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats लिये a दिए खिलाड़ी, और 1b, 2b, 3B, and HR are the number of singles, doubles, triples, and home runs, respectively.
सैर हैं specifically excluded from this calculation.
लिये उदाहरण, in 1920, Babe Ruth played his first season for the New York Yankees.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 doubles, 9 triples, and 54 home runs, which brings the total base count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His total number of bases ( 388 ) विभाजित by उसके कुल at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, his slugging percentage for the season.
The next year he slugged.846, and these records went unbroken until 2001, when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing उसके slugging प्रतिशत to.863, बेमेल since.
is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square ( now Square एनिक्स ) लिये the सुपर निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii, a freelance designer and creator of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira toriyama, a freelance manga कलाकार famed लिये उसके कार्य साथ ड्रैगन क्वेस्ट और ड्रैगन Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the खेल, masato काटो लिखा सबसे of the प्लाट, जबकि composer yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers who travel through समय to prevent a वैश्विक प्रलय.
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan for Sony 's प्लेस्टेशन in 1999, बाद repackaged साथ a फाइनल काल्पनिक iv बंदरगाहों as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released लिये the निन्टेंडो ds on नवम्बर 25, 2008, in North America and Japan, and went on sale in Australia on February 3, 2009 and in Europe on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in PAL territories पहले the निन्टेंडो DS version.
Chrono Trigger was a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी upon रिलीज and is considered today to be one of the greatest video games of all time.
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary, including its अनेक endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on अक्षर विकास, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995, और the खेल 's snes और प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003.
The संस्करण लिये the निन्टेंडो ds sold 790,000 copies as of March 2009.
Chrono Trigger थी भी ported to मोबाईल फोन, आभासी कंसोल, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल ( तभी in the USA ), iOS devices, and Android devices.
बकरी चीज
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( from the French शब्द लिये बकरी ), is चीज बना आउट of the milk of goats.
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation कि occurs जब a body produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates.
Extreme तापमान उन्नयन then becomes a medical emergency requiring immediate treatment to prevent disability or death.
The most common causes include heat stroke and प्रतिकूल प्रतिक्रियाएँ to दवाएँ.
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive ऊष्मा, or संयोजन of ऊष्मा और आर्द्रता, कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many drugs, विशेषकर those कि affect the central nervous system.
Malignant अतिताप is a विरल complication of some types of general anesthesia.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices और may be प्रयुक्त in the उपचार of कुछ kinds of cancer and other conditions, most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
Hyperthermia differs from ज्वर in कि the देह 's तापमान नियत पाइंट remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, which occurs when the तापमान बूंदें नीचे कि जरूरी to maintain normal metabolism.
Belize, is a देश स्तिथ on the northeastern coast of Central America.
It is the only country in the क्षेत्रफल जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is the आधिकारिक भाषा, although Kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the north by मैक्सिको, to the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by ग्वाटेमाला और to the east by the Caribbean Sea.
इसके मेनलैंड is about long and wide.
With of जमीन और a जनसांख्यिकी of तभी 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ), Belize possesses the lowest population density in Central America.
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the दूसरी उच्चतम in the प्रदेश and one of the highest in the western hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine प्रजाति, और इसके विविधता of ecosystems दे it a key place within the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Belize has a diverse society, comprising अनेक संस्कृतियों and languages.
It is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage, but as a भाग of the पश्चिमी caribbean मण्डल, it भी साझा a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries.
In general, बेलीज़ is माना to be a सेंट्रल American and Caribbean nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America.
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ), the जातियाँ of लैटिन अमरीकी और caribbean राज्य ( celac ), और सेंट्रल American Integration System ( SICA ).
Belize is known for its सितंबर जश्न, और is the birthplace of chewing gum and Punta Rock.
the `` बेट्सी Ross '' flag
A `` Betsy रॉस '' ध्वज उड़ती बाहर San Francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United States, popularly attributed to बेट्सी रॉस, using the आम motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
The flag was designed दौरान the अमरीकी क्रान्ति and features 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive feature of the रॉस ध्वज is the व्यवस्था of the सितारों in a circle.
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by most Americans, some flag historians and revisionists do not accept the बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन as the पहला American flag.
According to the traditional account, the original flag was made in June 1776, जब a छोटी committee—including जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, रॉबर्ट मॉरिस और सापेक्ष George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the जॉब to manufacture the ध्वज, altering the कमेटी 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars.
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable, the flag design is ज्ञात to have महरूम in उपयोग by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड b. गली वर्णित it at the आत्मसमर्पण of सामान्य burgoyne और understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving ध्वज centuries in cloth रूप, इसके likeness appears on पुरानी शारीरिक अरबिंदो, namely, the समकालीन रणभूमि paintings by जॉन Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale.
वे depict the गोलाकार स्टार व्यवस्था होने flown इससे जलयान masts and many other places, and thus provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses the Betsy Ross flag to represent सेवा to सब दिग्गजों इससे the अमरीकी क्रान्ति to the उपस्थित दिन.
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in वॉशिंगटन क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर ) and films, such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be one of the most popular प्रतीकों of the अमरीकी Revolution.
A purr is a ध्वनि बना by all species of felids and is a part of cat communication.
it varies between बिल्लियों ( लिये उदाहरण by loudness और tone ), and from species to species, but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing.
The term `` purring '' has महरूम प्रयुक्त liberally in साहित्य, और it रै महरूम claimed कि viverrids ( civet, mongoose, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals that have been said to purr are rabbits, squirrels, guinea सूअर, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, elephants, raccoons and gorillas while eating.
However, using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for minutes ), Peters ( 2002 ), in an exhaustive पुनर्विलोकन of the वैज्ञानिक साहित्य, पहुँचे the निष्कर्ष कि जबतक तब तभी ‘purring cats’ ( फ़ेलिडाए ) और दो प्रजाति of genets, genetta tigrina, और सबसे संभावित also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया, including Tasmania.
Together with the four species of echidna, it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a क्रमांक of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति have महरूम मिला in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, बीवर -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom सक्षम of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at नेशनल कार्यक्रम और is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स of इसके 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the राज्य of नई South Wales.
Until the early 20th century, it थी hunted लिये इसके फर, लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout its range.
हालांकि खिलाते प्रजनन programmes have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
St. Elizabeth is a गाँव in मिलर काउंटी, मिसौरी, United States.
The population was 336 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Wilton is a census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in Sacramento County, California, United States.
It is भाग of the sacramento – arden-arcade – Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, up from 4,551 at the 2000 census.
In human-computer interaction, cut and paste and copy and paste are related commands that offer a user-interface बातचीत तकनीक लिये transferring टेक्स्ट, आंकड़ा, फाइलें or वस्तुएँ from a source to a destination.
Most ubiquitously, users आवश्यकता the क्षमता to काटें और paste भाग of plain text.
The cut command removes the चयनित आंकड़ा इससे इसके असली स्थिति, जबकि the नक़ल command creates a duplicate ; in both cases the selected data is placed in a clipboard.
The data in the clipboard is later inserted in the स्थिति जहाँ the paste कमांड is जारी.
The command names are an interface metaphor based on the physical procedure used in manuscript संपादन to बनाएँ a पेज लेआउट.
This interaction technique has close associations with related techniques in graphical user interfaces that use pointing डिवाइस ऐसे as a कंप्यूटर चूहा ( by खीचें और बूँद, लिये उदाहरण ).
Economic order quantity is the अनुक्रम मात्रा कि minimizes total inventory holding costs and ordering costs.
It is one of the oldest शास्त्रीय उत्पादन scheduling models.
The framework used to determine this अनुक्रम मात्रा is भी ज्ञात as barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula.
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913, लकिन R. H. विल्सन, a सलाहकार who applied it extensively, is given credit for his in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर srv, vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
साथ साथ वादक क्रिस layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके एल्बम अक्सर गई सुनहरा.
He was born और उठाया in डलास, टेक्सास, and for a short period of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger bhai of jimmie vaughan, vaughan प्रारंभ playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career, joining समूह ऐसे as krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple threat revue, a band that eventually evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व in Switzerland, catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's नृत्य, जबकि browne offered the बैंड फ़्री उपयोग of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by दिग्गज रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
हालांकि उसके करियर था progressed सफलतापूर्वक, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, in कदम थी released और अर्जित उन्हें a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance.
On अगस्त 27, 1990, vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला from a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King, Freddie King, ओटिस फटाफट, और muddy waters, और चट्टान guitarists ऐसे as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of कीर्ति in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the राज्य of Texas.
The Las Vegas Strip World of coca-cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the संयुक्त राज्य चूंकि कूच 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the संसार.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major रेस्तरां और खाना सेवा वितरकों.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other कोला पेय अंतर्गत the कोक ब्रांड नाम.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free coca-cola, आहार कोक caffeine-free, coca-cola चेरी, coca-cola शून्य, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे valuable brand.
बैरी लुई larkin ( born अप्रैल 28, 1964 ) is a retired Major League Baseball player.
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and थी एक of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on the 1990 लाल ' संसार Series championship team.
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall of कीर्ति in जनवरी 2012 और थी inducted on July 22.
Larkin is considered one of the top players of his era, winning नौ चांदी slugger पुरस्कार और तीन सुनहरा Glove awards.
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game बारह टाइम्स, और थी निर्वाचित the 1995 नेशनल लीग Most Valuable Player.
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of सरकारी of the संघीय ज़िला.
Administratively, the city is स्तिथ in the संघीय ज़िला which is in the Central-West Region.
Physically, it is located in the ब्राज़ीलियाई हाइलैंड्स.
It has a जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
However, as a महानगर क्षेत्रफल, it ranks lower at sixth in population.
Brasília is the largest नगर in the संसार कि किया नहीं मौजूद at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin अमरीकी शहरों और the तीसरा in ब्राज़ील.
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( बराबर to लगभग $ 30,900 us डॉलर or €23,000 euros ), the city 's per capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities.
As the national capital, Brasília is the सीट of सब तीन शाखाओं of the संघीय सरकारी of Brazil.
The city also hosts the मुख्यालय of अनेक ब्राज़ीलियाई companies.
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive शहरी क्षेत्रों, as खूब as भवन the नगर around विशाल avenues और dividing it into सेक्टर, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as सेक्टर लिये निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the होटल Sector, the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector.
brasília होस्ट 124 विदेशी embassies.
The नगर थी नियोजित और विकसित in 1956 साथ Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner, Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer.
brasilia is in the युनेस्को 's संसार hertitage List due to its architecture.
On April 22, 1960, it formally became Brazil 's नेशनल पूंजी.
Viewed from above, the main portion of the नगर resembles an airplane or a butterfly.
The city is commonly referred to as पूंजी Federal, or simply BSB.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those नहीं born in the नगर लकिन जो migrated वहीँ बाद it was established ).
In local usage, the word `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the First Administrative Region ( RA I ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला ( distrito संघीय ), जहाँ the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सरकारी buildings are located.
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an administrative प्रभाग बल्कि than a विधिक नगरपालिका जैसे nearly all cities in Brazil.
Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously with the Federal District, which constitutes an indivisible federative ईकाई, analogous to a राज्य.
Several `` satellite cities '' exist जिससे हैं भी part of the Federal District.
Brasília International विमानक्षेत्र is the प्रमुख विमानक्षेत्र in brasília, connecting the पूंजी to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations.
It is the third most महत्वपूर्ण विमानक्षेत्र in ब्राज़ील, in शर्तें of passengers and aircraft movements.
Personifications of Germany, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and the United Kingdom attempting to keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist और राष्ट्रवादी तनाव in the balkans to prevent a सामान्य European war.
They were कामयाब in 1912 and 1913 but did not succeed in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918, included many factors, such as the conflicts and दुश्मनी of the चार दशकों अग्रणी up to the war.
सैन्यवाद, alliances, imperialism, and nationalism played major roles in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914, casus belli for जिससे थी the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड ( the archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip, an irredentist Serb.
The crisis came after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between the Great Powers ( Italy, France, Germany, the British Empire, the austria-hungarian साम्राज्य और रूस ) over यूरोपीय और औपनिवेशिक मुद्दे in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In फेरे ये राजनयिक clashes can be traced to changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867.
The more immediate cause for the war was तनाव over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia for territory and influence in the region और वे खींचा the बाकी of the ग्रेट शक्तियां into the विरोध through उनके विभिन्न alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war, the युद्ध 's origins go deeper, involving नेशनल राजनीती, संस्कृतियों, economics, and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between the various European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of राष्ट्रवाद आरपार यूरोपीय, अनसुलझे territorial विवादों, an intricate प्रणाली of alliances, the आभास विश्लेषण of the संतुलन of शक्ति in यूरोपीय, convoluted और fragmented शासन, the बाहें races of the previous decades, previous military planning, imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth, power and prestige, and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war शामिल misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the जर्मनी विश्वास कि the संयुक्त किंगडम होता remain न्यूट्रल ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications.
The various categories of explanation for संसार युद्ध i correspond to different historians ' overall methods.
Most historians and popular commentators include causes from more than एक श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the अपरिहार्य और predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों, और those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, historians and academics had to deal with an unprecedented flood of memoirs and official दस्तावेज़, released as प्रत्येक देश शामिल आजमाया to avoid दोष लिये starting the war.
Early releases of सूचना by सरकारें, विशेषकर those released for use by the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and biased.
in जोड कुछ दस्तावेज़, विशेषकर राजनयिक cables between Russia and France, were found to have been doctored.
Even in later decades however, when much more information had been released, इतिहासकारों इससे the वही संस्कृति have महरूम दिखाया to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's new chart of national emblems, प्रकाशित c. 1868.
The large flags shown in the corners हैं the 37-star ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal मानक of the United Kingdom, the Russian Imperial Standard, and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle.
Various अन्य ध्वज flown by जहाजों हैं दिखाया.
the ध्वज of क्यूबा is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) ``.
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of चीन थी drawn mistakenly as a western dragon.
A national flag is a flag that symbolizes a देश.
The flag is flown by the सरकारी, but usually can also be flown by citizens of the country.
Both public and निजी इमारतें ऐसे as स्कूलों और courthouses may fly the national flag.
In some countries, the national flags are तभी flown इससे non-military buildings on certain flag days.
There are three distinct types of नेशनल ध्वज लिये उपयोग on जमीन, और तीन लिये उपयोग at समुद्र, हालांकि अनेक countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining slave states continued to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian John huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Norrie बीमारी is a जेनेटिक विकार that primarily affects the eye and almost always leads to blindness.
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms, some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd दशक of जीवन, जबकि another portion may be मानसिक challenged.
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear white जब लाइट is shone on उन्हें ), साथ साथ अन्य developmental मुद्दे in the नजर, ऐसे as shrinking of the globe and the wasting away of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of them will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation, psychotic-like सुविधाएँ, incoordination of आंदोलनों or behavioral abnormalities.
Most मरीजों हैं born साथ सामान्य सुनना ; however, the onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence.
About 15 % of the मरीजों हैं अनुमानित to develop सब the features of the disease.
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon after जनम, क्युकी the बीमारी is inherited x-linked recessive.
Only in very rare cases, females have been diagnosed साथ norrie disease as well.
The सटीक incidence क्रमांक is अनजान ; तभी a few hundred cases have been reported so far.
It is a very rare disorder that is नहीं संबद्ध साथ कोई specific ethnic or racial groups.
A contract is an agreement having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` प्रस्ताव '' और `` स्वीकृति '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these तत्व may be किया in लिखने, हालांकि contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through an आदेश.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or अपेक्षा क्षतिपूर्ति, जिससे हैं वृहद than mere रिलायंस damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be natural persons or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking that something will or will not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may not have the पूरा खड़ा of a अनुबंध, as जब it is an अनुबंध बगैर विचार.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to civil विधि, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि, विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings, ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सम्मेलन on अनुबंध लिये the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Sale of Goods.
ASP.NET is a server-side वेब अनुप्रयोग फ्रेमवर्क designed for Web development to produce dynamic Web pages.
It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, वेब अनुप्रयोग और वेब सेवाएं.
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the.neT फ्रेमवर्क, और is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime ( CLR ), allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to लिखें asp.net कोड using any supported.NET language.
The ASP.NET SOAP एक्सटेंशन फ्रेमवर्क allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic साइकेडेलिक ड्रग of the ergoline परिवार, खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव जिससे can शामिल altered सोच प्रक्रियाओं, बंद और खोलें नजर visuals, synesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is used मुख्यतः as an entheogen, recreational drug, and as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
LSD is non-addictive, is not known to कारण दिमाग क्षति, और रै अत्यधिक low toxicity relative to dose.
However, प्रतिकूल मनोरोग प्रतिक्रियाएँ ऐसे as anxiety, paranoia, and delusions are possible.
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine, a रासायनिक निकला by आर्थर stoll इससे ergot, a grain fungus that typically grows on rye.
the छोटी रूप `` एलएसडी '' आता इससे इसके जल्दी कोड नाम lsd-25, which is an abbreviation for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is संवेदनशील to ऑक्सीजन, पराबैंगनी लाइट, और chlorine, especially in solution, though its potency may last for years if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature.
In pure form it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, usually on a substrate ऐसे as absorbent blotter पेपर, a शुगर cube, or gelatin.
In its liquid रूप, it can भी be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) being the threshold dose.
New experiments with LSD प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये the पहला समय in 40 years.
introduced by sandoz laboratories, साथ trade-name delysid, as a ड्रग साथ विभिन्न मनोरोग uses in 1947, LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) thought the drug might be applicable to mind कंट्रोल और रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's mkultra शोध कार्यक्रम propagated the drug among young servicemen and students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the पश्चिमी संसार दौरान the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक firestorm कि resulted in its prohibition.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation, MAPS, Heffter Research Institute and the Albert Hofmann foundation—exist to निधि, प्रोत्साहित और निर्देशांक research into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's Sea, Air, Land Teams, commonly known as the Navy SEALs, are the u.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स और a भाग of the नवल खास warfare कमांड and United States Special Operations Command.
`` SEAL '' is सदा capitalized in सन्दर्भ to members of the Naval Special Warfare community.
The acronym is derived from their capacity to operate at sea, in the एयर, और on जमीन.
SEALs are male members of the संयुक्त राज्य Navy.
An एक्सचेंज कार्यक्रम साथ the coast गार्ड, which graduated three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs, was suspended in 2011.
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog ) रंगरूटों operators from the SEAL Teams.
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go back to the famed macv-sog दौरान the वियतनाम युद्ध.
This सहयोग स्टिल exists आज और is देखी in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.
World population estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual अंकित जनसांख्यिकी figures are in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल number of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to number billion by the United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ).
the uscb estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, और लिये a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, और हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ to 80 लाख प्रति साल by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or भी overall मनाही in the वैश्विक population by 2150.
Some विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी growth, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
मेम्फिस is a नगर in the southwestern corner of the U.S. state of Tennessee, and the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is located on the 4th chickasaw bluff, दक्षिण of the संगम of the Wolf and Mississippi rivers.
मेम्फिस था a जनसांख्यिकी of 672,277 in 2011 बनाना it the largest नगर in the राज्य of टेनेसी, the largest city on the Mississippi River, the third largest in the Southeastern United States, and the 20th largest in the United States.
The वृहद मेम्फिस महानगर क्षेत्रफल, सहित adjacent counties in Mississippi and Arkansas, had a 2010 population of 1,316,100.
This makes मेम्फिस the दूसरी largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in टेनेसी, surpassed only by metropolitan Nashville, which has overtaken Memphis in recent years.
Memphis is the youngest of टेनेसी 's major cities.
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian, and the Memphis प्रदेश is ज्ञात, विशेषकर to मीडिया आउटलेट, as `` Memphis & The Mid-South ``.
The cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in France.
France produces around तीन quarters of its electricity by nuclear power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear शक्ति संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30, 2011, कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 रिएक्टरों are under construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power स्टेशन operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, although according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 और 2009, तभी five actually came on stream.
as of जून 2011, जर्मनी और Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power.
as of जून 2011, देशों ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal muscles होमो sapiens
This is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in this article.
Nevertheless, the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or ट्रंक, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of each muscle from the मानक anatomical position.
In अन्य स्थितियाँ, अन्य actions may be performed.
A reenactment of a battle at फोर्ट फोस्टर, 1837 ( at Hillsborough River State Park )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the seminole — the सामूहिक नाम दिए to the amalgamation of विभिन्न समूह of native Americans and Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army.
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ), the Second seminole युद्ध इससे 1835 to 1842, और the तीसरा seminole युद्ध इससे 1855 to 1858.
The first विरोध साथ the seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to General Andrew Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816.
जैक्सन भी attacked the स्पेनी at Pensacola.
Ultimately, the स्पेनी क्राउन ceded the colony to United States rule.
Orono is a town in Penobscot County, maine, संयुक्त राज्य.
it थी पहला settled in 1774 and named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot Nation.
It is home to The विश्वविद्यालयों of maine.
The population was 10,362 at the 2010 census.
View of the पिरामिड
Luxor Las वेगास is a होटल और कसीनो on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM Resorts International, has a कसीनो साथ over 2,000 स्लॉट मशीने और 87 तालिका games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it रै a नई, अत्यधिक आधुनिकीकरण, और समकालीन डिज़ाइन और contains a total of 4,400 rooms, including 442 suites, lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions.
The hotel is named after the city of Luxor ( ancient thebes ) in मिश्र.
Luxor is the दूसरी largest होटल in लास वेगास ( the largest being the MGM Grand ) and the eighth largest in the world.
As of 2010, the लक्सर रै a 4 कुंजी दरजा इससे the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating Program, which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot पढ़ाई, is a छोटी स्केल प्रारंभिक पढ़ाई conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, adverse events, and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project.
Pilot studies, इसलिए, may नहीं be उचित for case studies.
The Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency that provides fire protection and emergency चिकित्सा सेवाएं लिये the नगर of Los Angeles.
It may be unofficially referred to as the लॉस एंजिल्स नगर आग Department to distinguish it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department.
The acre is a unit of area used in the इम्पीरियल और u.S. प्रथागत systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an अमरीकी football field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable exceptions include the United States, Australia, Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the एकड़ is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to some extent, in कनाडा.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is the international acre.
In the संयुक्त राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use.
The most common use of the एकड़ is to माप tracts of land.
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार metres.
During the मध्य आयु, an एकड़ थी the राशि of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American people और इसके language:
Pawnee लोगों
pawnee भाषा
Pawnee is also the नाम of अनेक places in the United States:
Pawnee, इलिनोइस
Pawnee, कान्सास
pawnee नगर, Nebraska
Pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, Texas
Pawnee National घासभूमि, कोलोराडो
Pawnee Township ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee काउंटी ( बहुविकल्पी )
pawnee may भी refer to:
Piper PA-25 pawnee, agricultural aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee, प्रायोगिक वायुयान
pawnee, इंडियाना ( fictional नगर ) the fictional setting of the NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation.
broca 's और Wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings उपयोग शब्द to communicate विचार और जज्बात, और कैसा ऐसे संचार are processed and understood.
Thus it is how the brain creates and understands भाषा.
Most recent theories consider that this process is carried आउट entirely by और अंदर the brain.
This is considered एक of the सबसे characteristic abilities of the human species - perhaps the most characteristic.
However very little is known about it और वहीँ is विशाल पैमाना for research on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury, whether बाह्य ( wounds, बुलेट ) or आतंरिक ( स्ट्रोक्स, tumors, अपक्षयी रोगों ).
Studies have shown that सबसे of the भाषा प्रसंस्करण कृत्यों are carried out in the cerebral cortex.
The essential फलन of the cortical language areas is symbolic representation.
Even though language exists in different forms, all of them are आधारित on सांकेतिक प्रतिनिधित्व.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed और विकसित by the volkswagen समूह और manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार, with a top speed of.
The original संस्करण रै a शीर्ष गति of.
It was named Car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन car चलित All Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, साथ much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special विसंगतियाँ have महरूम produced.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior और इंटीरियर्स colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
DVD is an optical disc भंडार स्वरूप, invented और विकसित by फिलिप्स, Sony, Toshiba, and Panasonic in 1995.
DVDs offer higher storage क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि having the same dimensions.
Pre-recorded dvds हैं mass-produced using molding machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD.
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM, because data can तभी be पढ़ा और नहीं लिखा nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then फलन as a dvd-rom. rewritable dvds ( dvd-rw, dvd+rw, और dvd-ram ) can be recorded and erased multiple times.
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer डिजिटल वीडियो स्वरूप और in DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format, as well as for authoring AVCHD discs.
DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as dvd आंकड़ा discs.
What Chilli wants is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता श्रेणी on VH1 starring Chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC.
The show chronicles Chilli 's क्वेस्ट to ढूँढें प्रेम साथ the सहायता of Tionna T. Smalls, an author and relationship coach.
The series premiered on अप्रैल 11, 2010, और has since been renewed for a second season.
The दूसरी ऋतु premiered on Sunday, January 2, 2011.
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8, 1985 ), known by his stage नाम ब्रूनो मंगल, is an American singer-songwriter and record producer.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a परिवार of संगीतकारों, मंगल began बनाना म्यूज़िक at a young age and performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from high school और तब स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, to pursue a musical career.
मंगल उत्पादित गीतों लिये अन्य कलाकारों, joining production team The Smeezingtons.
मंगल था an unsuccessful कार्यावधि with Motown Records, but then signed with Atlantic in 2009.
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` nothin ' on तुम `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by flo rida featuring ke $ ha, और `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan.
In अक्तूबर 2010, he released his debut album, Doo-Wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` Just the Way You Are `` and `` ग्रेनेड ``, the एल्बम peaked at number three on the Billboard 200.
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, winning बेहतरीन पुरूष पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन लिये `` बस the रास्ता You Are ''.
His second studio album, अपरंपरागत ज्यूकबॉक्स, थी released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles and प्रभाव, और contains elements of many musical genres.
He has worked with an assortment of कलाकारों इससे various genres.
As a child, he was highly influenced by artists such as Little Richard, Elvis Presley and माइकल जैक्सन और होता प्रायः impersonate ये कलाकारों from a young age.
Mars also incorporates reggae - and Motown -inspired sounds into उसके कार्य.
विश्वव्यापी, मंगल became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He had three singles in the top ten, including first place with `` Just the रास्ता तुम हैं '', जिससे sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars won Best अंतरराष्ट्रीय पुरूष सोलो कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट Awards.
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums and 40 million singles विश्वव्यापी as a सिंगर.
Althought as a song-writer, producer and singer उसके कुल सिंगल डाउनलोड बिक्री surpass 100 million worldwide.
Bust of Zeus, Otricoli ( sala रोटोंडा, Museo Pio-Clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks, concerning their gods and heroes, the प्रकृति of the संसार, और the origins और significance of उनके अपना cult and ritual practices.
It was a part of the religion in प्राचीन यूनानियों और is भाग of धर्म in modern Greece and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and राजनैतिक संस्थानों of प्राचीन यूनानियों और इसके सभ्यता, और to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, and implicitly in Greek representational arts, such as vase-paintings and votive gifts.
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the lives and adventures of a चौड़ी किस्में of देवताओं, देवियाँ, heroes, heroines, and mythological creatures.
ये खाते initially यहूद disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature.
The oldest known Greek literary sources, Homer 's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey, फ़ोकस on कार्यक्रम surrounding the Trojan War.
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod, the Theogony and the Works and Days, contain accounts of the genesis of the world, the succession of divine rulers, the succession of इंसान आयु, the उत्पत्ति of इंसान woes, और the उत्पत्ति of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of एपिक कविताएं of the एपिक साईकिल, in lyric कविताएं, in the works of the tragedians of the पांचवां सदी bc, in कृतियाँ of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age, and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
Archaeological findings provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology, साथ देवताओं और नायक प्रदर्शित prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
Geometric designs on pottery of the आठवीं सदी bc depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles.
In the succeeding Archaic, Classical, and Hellenistic periods, Homeric and various other पौराणिक दृश्यों appear, supplementing the मौजूदा साहित्यिक evidence.
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture, arts, and साहित्य of पश्चिमी सभ्यता और remains भाग of पश्चिमी heritage and language.
Poets and कलाकारों इससे प्राचीन टाइम्स to the उपस्थित have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes.
मुँह & macneal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal was a pop duo इससे the नीदरलैंड्स.
They हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये their million selling recording of `` How Do You Do ``.
The Boise State Broncos फ़ुटबॉल कार्यक्रम represents boise राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference.
They are currently led by head coach Chris Petersen and play उनके घर खेल at bronco स्टेडियम.
The franc ( sign : Fr. or SFr. ; German : Franken, French and romansh : फ़्रैंक, इतालवी : फ्रेंको ; कोड : chf ) is the करेंसी और विधिक टेंडर of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally legal tender in the जर्मनी exclave büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक करेंसी is the यूरोपियन ), it is in wide daily use there.
the स्विस नेशनल बैंको मुद्दे banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins.
The Swiss franc is the तभी संस्करण of the फ़्रैंक स्टिल issued in Europe.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a franc, is a rappen ( rp. ) in जर्मनी, centime ( c. ) in French, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
The ISO code of the currency used by banks and financial institutions is CHF, although `` Fr. '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; कुछ उपयोग sfr. ; the latinate `` ch '' स्टैंड for Confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different languages used in Switzerland, Latin is प्रयुक्त लिये language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
सर चार्ल्स स्पेंसर `` चार्ली '' चैपलिन, ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era.
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his screen persona `` the Tramp `` and is considered एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आंकड़े of the film industry.
His career spanned more than 75 years, from a child in the Victorian era to बंद to उसके मौत at the आयु of 88, और encompassed दोनो adulation and controversy.
Raised in London, Chaplin 's बाल्यकाल थी पारिभाषित by गरीबी और hardship.
He थी भेजा to a workhouse twice पहले the age of nine ; his father was absent, and his mother was committed to a mental asylum.
Chaplin began performing from a यंग आयु, touring music halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian.
At 19 he was signed to the prestigious फ्रेड karno कम्पनी, which took him to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the film उद्योग, और बना उसके पहला दिखावे in 1914 साथ keystone Studios.
He soon developed the Tramp persona और formed a विशाल प्रशंसक base.
Chaplin directed his films from an जल्दी स्टेज, और जारी to hone his craft as he moved to the Essanay, Mutual, and First National corporations.
By 1918, he was one of the most famous मेन in the world.
In 1919, Chaplin co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त कलाकारों, giving him complete control over his films.
His first feature-length चित्र थी the बच्चा ( 1921 ), followed by A Woman of Paris ( 1923 ), The Gold Rush ( 1925 ), and The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to ध्वनि films in the 1930s, instead producing City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly political and his next film, The ग्रेट तानाशाह ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf Hitler.
The 1940s was a decade चिह्नित साथ विवाद लिये चैपलिन, and his popularity declined rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, जबकि उसके भागीदारी in a paternity सूट और विवाह to much younger women were considered scandalous.
An FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin, and he was eventually forced to छोड़ the संयुक्त राज्य और settle in Switzerland.
He abandoned the ट्रैम्प लिये उसके बाद films, जिससे include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), Limelight ( 1952 ), A King in New York ( 1957 ), and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
Chaplin wrote, directed, produced, संपादित, scored, और स्ट्रक्चर in सबसे of his films.
He was a perfectionist, and his financial स्वतंत्रता meant he प्रायः खर्च सालो on the development and production of a picture.
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos, and often feature the ट्रैम्प struggling विरूद्ध adversity.
Many contain सोशल और राजनैतिक विषयवस्तु, as खूब as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as part of a renewed appreciation for his work, Chaplin received an Honorary अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये `` the incalculable प्रभाव he रै था in बनाना motion pictures the art form of this century ''.
He continues to be held in ऊँची लिहाज़, साथ the सुनहरा फटाफट, नगर लाइट्स, आधुनिक Times, and The Great Dictator often ranked among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood, is the u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood संघ ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive health and मातृ और चाइल्ड स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं.
The Planned parenthood कार्रवाई निधि, inc. ( ppaf ) is a सम्बन्धित संगठन जिससे lobbies लिये pro-choice legislation, comprehensive sex education, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health services, सहित कर्कट स्क्रीनिंग, hiv स्क्रीनिंग और counseling, निरोधक, and abortion.
निरोधक खाते लिये 35 % of ppfa 's कुल सेवाएं और abortions account for 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each year, among 3 million people served.
the संगठन रै इसके roots in Brooklyn, New York, where Margaret Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921, which in 1942 became भाग of the नियोजित parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned parenthood रै grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक locations in the U.S., with a total budget of US $ 1 billion.
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million people in the संयुक्त राज्य, और supports सेवाएं लिये over एक लाख क्लाइंट बाहर the United States.
Mens rea is लैटिन लिये `` guilty mind ''.
In criminal law, it is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes.
The standard आम विधि परीक्षण of दण्ड देयता is प्रायः expressed in the लैटिन phrase, actus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea, which means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions साथ due प्रक्रम, वहीँ जरूर be an actus reus, or `` अपराधी अधिनियम, '' accompanied by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ).
as a सामान्य नियम, दण्ड देयता करता not attach to a person who acted with the absence of mental fault.
The एक्सेप्शन is सख्त देयता crimes.
In civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental element to स्थापित देयता लिये breach of contract or tort, for example.
However, if a tort is intentionally वचनबद्ध or a अनुबंध is intentionally breached, ऐसे intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff.
Therefore, mens rea refers to the दिमागी तत्व of the अपराध कि accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the शर्तें पुरुषों rea और actus reus have महरूम replaced by alternative terminology.
In Australia, for example, the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( mens rea ) और `` शारीरिक तत्व '' or `` बाह्य elements '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology was adopted to replace the अस्पष्टता of the लैटिन शर्तें साथ सरल and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट ( born hiram ulysses ग्रान्ट ; अप्रैल 27, 1822 – जुलाई 23, 1885 ) थी the 18th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful role as a war general in the second half of the Civil War.
Under Grant, the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the war और secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's army at Appomattox.
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their effort to eliminate all vestiges of confederate राष्ट्रवाद और गुलामी.
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having desired to protect African American नागरिकता, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट effectively नष्ट the ku klux Klan in 1871.
Grant थी the पहला अध्यक्ष to स्थापित सिविल सेवा सुधार having created a two-year federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871.
In terms of foreign नीति, ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` अनपेक्षित क्षमता लिये deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
His प्रतिष्ठा थी marred by उसके दोहराया रक्षा of भ्रष्ट appointees, and by America 's first industrial age economic depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term.
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 with reformers denouncing उसे, ग्रान्ट थी easily reelected.
By 1875 the रूढ़िवादी श्वेत दक्षिणी विपक्ष regained control of every state in the South and as he left the White House in March 1877 his policies were being undone.
A career soldier, he graduated from the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य अकादमी at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War.
When the सिविल युद्ध began in 1861, ग्रान्ट trained Union volunteer regiments in Illinois.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of battles and was promoted to major general after forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल confederate फौज और gaining कंट्रोल of केंटकी and most of Tennessee.
He then led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the बैटल of shiloh, कमाई a प्रतिष्ठा as an आक्रामक commander.
In July 1863, after a long, complex campaign, Grant पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate सेना ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg.
This famous victory gave the Union full control of the Mississippi River, विभाजित बंद the पश्चिमी confederacy, और खोली the way for more Union triumphs.
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in लेट 1863, अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln बना उसे लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर of सब of the Union Armies.
As commanding सामान्य of the फौज, ग्रान्ट confronted रॉबर्ट E. ली in a श्रेणी of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg, outside the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns शुभारम्भ by विलियम tecumseh शरमन, फिलिप Sheridan, and George Thomas.
Finally breaking through ली 's trenches, the संघ फौज captured Richmond in April 1865.
Lee surrendered उसके depleted शक्तियां to ग्रान्ट at appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked ग्रान्ट as a ruthless butcher who won by brute force, most historians have hailed his military genius.
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President stabilized the nation after the American सिविल युद्ध और दौरान the turbulent पुनर्निर्माण period that followed.
As president, he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and लड़ ku klux Klan violence.
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ; giving संवैधानिक सुरक्षा लिये african-american voting rights.
He used the army to build the Republican Party in the South, based on black voters, Northern newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) और देशी श्वेत supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a result, African Americans were represented in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस लिये the पहला समय in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of Indian commissioners to मेक सुधार सुझाव, और उसके enlistment of quaker protestants जो नियंत्रित मिड पश्चिमी भारतीय एजेंसियों, कि effectively curbed congressional patronage.
Grant remained determined in keeping Indians from होने exterminated इससे श्वेत settler encroachment or by the U.S. military.
ग्रान्ट 's प्रतिष्ठा as अध्यक्ष by 1875 थी at an all-time ऊँची लिये उसके पिछला वीटो of the महंगाई Bill, the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act, and Secretary Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय मध्यस्थता, settled the अलबामा दावा साथ ब्रिटेन और avoided युद्ध साथ स्पेन over the virginius affair.
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing device, usually a coin-operated यंत्र, कि होगा खेल a संरक्षक 's चयन इससे self-contained media.
The classic jukebox has buttons with letters and numbers on उन्हें कि, जब डाला in संयोजन, are used to play a specific selection.
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, blood, sweat, or मौखिक द्रव / लार – to determine the उपस्थिति or अनुपस्थिति of निर्दिष्ट parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of प्रदर्शन बढ़ाना steroids in खेल or लिये drugs prohibited by laws, such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
A `` 10-panel मूत्र स्क्रीन '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( सहित methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
opiates ( codeine, मॉरफीन, Heroin, Oxycodone, Hydrocodone, etc. )
phencyclidine ( pcp )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket, used for the अमरीकी मानवयुक्त चंद्र landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery and exploration of बाहरी स्पेस by means of space technology.
Physical exploration of space is conducted दोनो by इंसान spaceflights और by रोबोटिक spacecraft.
While the observation of objects in space, known as astronomy, predates reliable recorded history, it was the development of large and relatively efficient rockets दौरान the जल्दी 20th सदी कि अनुमत शारीरिक स्पेस खोजी to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific research, uniting अलग राष्ट्र, ensuring the भविष्य अस्तित्व of humanity and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries.
Various criticisms of space exploration are sometimes बना.
Space exploration has often been used as a proxy competition for geopolitical rivalries ऐसे as the Cold War.
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य, the लॉन्च of the पहला man-made ऑब्जेक्ट to कक्षा the धरती, the ussr 's sputnik 1, on 4 अक्तूबर 1957, और the पहला चंद्रमा लैंडिंग by the अमरीकी Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period.
The Soviet space program achieved many of the first milestones, including the first living being in orbit in 1957, the first human spaceflight ( Yuri गगारिन सवार वोस्तोक 1 ) in 1961, the पहला spacewalk ( by aleksei leonov ) on 18 कूच 1965, the पहला स्वचालित लैंडिंग on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, focus shifted इससे one-off फ़्लाइट to बेदर्दी हार्डवेयर, ऐसे as the स्पेस शटल कार्यक्रम, और इससे प्रतियोगिता to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011, योजनाएँ लिये स्पेस खोजी by the USA remain in flux.
Constellation, a Bush Administration program for a return to the Moon by 2020 was judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an विशेषज्ञ पुनर्विलोकन फलक reporting in 2009.
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the capability for crewed मिशन परे कम धरती कक्षा ( leo ), envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the iss परे 2020, transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector, and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the US Senate and House of Representatives are still working towards a compromise NASA funding bill, which will probably terminate Constellation and fund विकास of a भारी लिफ्ट लॉन्च vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the People 's Republic of China initiated a कामयाब मानवयुक्त spaceflight कार्यक्रम, while the European Union, Japan, and India have also planned future manned space missions.
China, Russia, Japan, and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century, while the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the चंद्रमा और मंगल दौरान the 21st सदी.
From the 1990s onwards, निजी रूचि began promoting स्पेस पर्यटन और then private space exploration of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ).
John calvin कूलिज, jr. ( जुलाई 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A Republican lawyer from Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the सीढ़ियाँ of मैसाचुसेट्स राज्य राजनीती, आखिरकार बनने राज्यपाल of that state.
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the national स्पॉटलाइट और दिया उसे a प्रतिष्ठा as a man of decisive action.
Soon after, he was निर्वाचित as the 29th वाइस अध्यक्ष in 1920 और succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon the sudden death of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his own right in 1924, he gained a reputation as a small-government रूढ़िवादी, और भी as a man who said very little.
Coolidge restored public विश्वास in the श्वेत हाउस after the scandals of his predecessor 's administration, and left office with considerable popularity.
As a Coolidge biographer put it, `` He embodied the स्पिरिट और उम्मीदें of the मध्य class, could interpret their longings and express their opinions.
That he did represent the genius of the average is the सबसे convincing प्रमाण of his strength. ''
Some later criticized कूलिज as part of a general criticism of laissez-faire government.
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration, but the ultimate assessment of his presidency is still divided between those who approve of his reduction of the आकार of सरकारी कार्यक्रम और those जो मानना the संघीय सरकारी चाहिए be अधिक शामिल in regulating और controlling the economy.
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a छोटी राशि of nearly boiling water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans.
एस्प्रेसो प्रायः रै a thicker संगति than कॉफी brewed by अन्य विधि, a उच्चतर विशेषज्ञता of निलंबित and dissolved solids, and crema ( meaning cream, but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the जायका और रसायन in a ठेठ कप of espresso are very concentrated.
एस्प्रेसो is the base for other drinks, such as a latte, cappuccino, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages, but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of एस्प्रेसो रै 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
Brian Keith Kelly ( born October 25, 1961 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच and former player.
He is currently the सिर फ़ुटबॉल कोच लिये the notre dame लड़ Irish, a position he has held since December 2009.
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003 ), सेंट्रल मिशिगन विश्वविद्यालयों ( 2004–2006 ), and University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ).
A contract is an agreement having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of ये तत्व may be किया in writing, though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance क्षतिपूर्ति, as in promissory estoppel.
the पार्टियों may be प्राकृतिक persons or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking कि कुछ होगा or होगा नहीं occur.
The word वादा can be प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one क्षेत्राधिकार to another, सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि, the प्रभाव of received law, particularly from England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant अधिनियमों जिससे प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / national ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ONS ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a कनाडाई पेशेवर बर्फ hockey player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the Quebec Major जूनियर हॉकी लीग ( QMJHL ).
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic, he earned back-to-back chl खिलाड़ी of the साल पुरस्कार और led उसके club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final.
Nicknamed `` The Next One ``, he was एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी इतिहास, अग्रणी अनेक to refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his first NHL season, Crosby finished sixth in league scoring with 102 points ( 39 goals, 63 assists ) and थी a runner-up लिये the calder मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी ( जीती by सिकंदर Ovechkin ).
By his second season, he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the Art Ross ट्रॉफी, बनने the youngest खिलाड़ी और the तभी किशोरावस्था to जीत a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक in any major North American sports league.
That same season, Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most valuable player and the Lester B. Pearson Award as the एनएचएल खिलाड़ी संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, बनने the सातवाँ खिलाड़ी in एनएचएल इतिहास to earn all three awards in one year.
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led उन्हें to the 2008 स्टेनली कप फाइनल, जहाँ वे यहूद पराजित by the Detroit Red Wings in six games.
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest कप्तान in एनएचएल इतिहास to win the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; साथ 58 assists, he totaled 109 अंक, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, crosby प्राप्त the Mark Messier Leadership Award.
in 2010–11, crosby sustained a concussion as a result of hits to the head in back-to-back games.
the चोट बाएँ उसे sidelined for ten and a half months.
However, after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season, Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in December 2011, और he किया नहीं वापसी जबतक mid-march 2012.
Internationally, Crosby has represented Canada in numerous tournaments लिये the देश 's जूनियर और men 's teams.
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior संसार कप, he represented कनाडा in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships, winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship, he led the tournament in स्कोरिंग, जबकि भी कमाई शीर्ष आगे और all-star टोली honours.
Four years later, Crosby was named to Team Canada for the 2010 शीत ओलंपिक in वैंकूवर.
playing the संयुक्त राज्य in the सुनहरा medal game, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
A United States cent, भी ज्ञात as a penny.
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my two cents in '' is an United States ( us ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति, लिया इससे the असली अंग्रेज़ी मुहावरा अभिव्यक्ति : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is used to preface the अंतरिम stating of one’s राय.
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is तभी दो सेंट, a बहुत छोटी राशि – the उपयोक्ता of the phrase उम्मीदें to lessen the प्रभाव of a संभवतः बयान, showing politeness and humility.
However, it is also sometimes प्रयुक्त साथ विडंबना जब expressing a strongly felt opinion.
The phrase is also used out of आदत to preface uncontentious opinions.
लिये example:
The Chinese Civil युद्ध थी a सिविल युद्ध in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ).
The war began in April 1927, amidst the Northern Expedition, and essentially ended when major active लड़ाइयों ceased in 1950.
The विरोध आखिरकार resulted in दो de facto राज्य, the गणतंत्र of चीन ( आरओसी ) in ताईवान और the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन ( पीआरसी ) in मेनलैंड China, both claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
The war represented an वैचारिक विभाजित ( बाएँ vs. सही ) between the कम्युनिस्ट CPC, and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism.
the सिविल युद्ध जारी intermittently जबतक लेट 1937, when the two parties formed a Second United Front to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale civil war resumed in 1946, a year after the समाप्त of hostilities साथ Japan.
After four more years, 1950 saw the cessation of प्रमुख सैन्य hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling मेनलैंड चीन ( सहित Hainan ), and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.
The Kuomintang शिकस्त is attributed to अनेक कारकों : भ्रष्टाचार - च्यांग लिखा in उसके डायरी on जून 1948 कि the KMT had failed, not because of external enemies but because of rot from within.
Strong initial support from the U.S. diminished, और तब, stopped.
( Partly because of KMT भ्रष्टाचार और anti-democratic शासन, और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित u.S. विदेशी नीति towards साम्यवादी between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords.
This ensured PLA लोकप्रिय support.
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II, सोवियत शक्तियां turned over उनके captured Japanese weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this day, no armistice or सलाम सन्धि रै कभी महरूम हस्ताक्षरित, और it is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have महरूम hindered by सैन्य खतरे और राजनैतिक और आर्थिक दबाव, विशेषकर over Taiwan 's political status, with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना इसके नाम to और gaining अंतरराष्ट्रीय मान्यता as the Republic of Taiwan.
The ROC mutually claims मेनलैंड चीन, और वे both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition.
Today, the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts in the रूप of cross-strait संबंध ; however, the दो पृथक de facto राज्य have close economic ties.
the एक सौ बारहवीं संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस थी the बैठक of the विधान branch of the United States federal government, from January 3, 2011 until January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, and ended on January 3, 2013, 17 days before the समाप्त of the अध्यक्षीय पद to जिससे बराक ओबामा थी elected in 2008.
Senators elected to नियमित शर्तें in 2006 समाप्त those शर्तें in this Congress.
This कॉंग्रेस शामिल the पिछला हाउस of प्रतिनिधि निर्वाचित from congressional districts that were apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 मध्यावधि चुनावों, the Republican Party won the majority in the House of Representatives.
While the Democrats kept their Senate majority, it was घटाया इससे the पिछला कॉंग्रेस.
This was the first Congress in which the House and Senate were controlled by अलग पार्टियों चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस ( 2001–2003 ), and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ).
In this Congress, the House of Representatives had the largest number of रिपब्लिकन सदस्यों, 242, चूंकि the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in जिससे no सदस्य of the कैनेडी परिवार परोसा, as खूब as the सबसे politically polarized Congress since Reconstruction, with record low approval ratings.
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in शर्तें of जाल लायक, जिससे is the योग of सब एसेट, including home equity, minus all liabilities.
The total net लायक of us households और nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009, unadjusted for inflation or population change.
For example, a household in possession of an $ 800,000 हाउस, $ 5,000 in परस्पर निधि, $ 30,000 in गाड़ियाँ, $ 20,000 लायक of भण्डार in उनके own company, and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming that this household होता have a $ 250,000 बंधक, $ 40,000 in car loans, and $ 10,000 in credit card debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the लायक of इस household 's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
Net worth can vary साथ fluctuations in मान of the underlying assets.
The wealth —more specifically, the मध्य जाल worth—of households in the United States is varied with relation to race, education, geographic location and gender.
As one would expect, households with greater income feature the highest net worths, हालांकि ऊँची आय can नहीं be लिया as an always accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the वृद्धि, साथ baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly distributed, with the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the माल in the संयुक्त राज्य, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human capital such as कौशल, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र अनुमानित the कुल माल of the United States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
This article deals with Selective Dorsal rhizotomy ( sdr ) बल्कि than the rhizotomy प्रक्रियाओं लिये पीड़ा राहत ; लिये those प्रक्रियाओं, जिससे have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy and similar.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively नष्ट समस्यापूर्ण तंत्रिका जड़ें in the स्पाइनल cord, सबसे प्रायः to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has महरूम the प्रमुख उपयोग of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in this surgery, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
The sensory nerve roots, जहाँ spasticity is स्तिथ, हैं पहला अलग इससे the मोटर ones, and the nerve fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity are then selectively lesioned साथ छोटा विद्युत pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged nerves that don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid, जिससे is the कोर प्रॉब्लम लिये लोगों साथ spastic cerebral palsy.
These over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the सोर्स of the रोगी 's hypertonia ; वे हैं eliminated साथ the electrical pulses once identified, while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, और कि इस is किया बगैर affecting बेचैन प्रणाली संवेदनशीलता or फलन in अन्य क्षेत्रों, because the only nerves destroyed are the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness.
The शर्तें rhizotomy और neurotomy हैं भी increasingly बनने interchangeable in the treatment of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease.
This is a procedure पुकारा a facet rhizotomy और is नहीं a सर्जिकल कार्यविधि लकिन is instead done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to आठ or अधिक महीने of पीड़ा राहत पहले the तंत्रिका regenerates and another round of the procedure needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' नाम चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ the SDR procedure.
Migrant मजदूर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 1935
The term migrant कार्यकर्ता रै अलग आधिकारिक meanings and connotations in different parts of the world.
the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ' परिभाषा is व्यापक, including any people working outside of their home country.
The term can also be used to describe someone who migrates within a देश, संभवतः उनके अपना, in अनुक्रम to pursue work such as seasonal work.
फोटोग्राफ of लील वेन साथ teardrop tattoos below his eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a सांकेतिक टैटू कि is लगाई underneath the eye.
It has no fixed अर्थ लकिन लगभग सब meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison.
U.S. Route 75 is a north–south U.S. Highway.
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson County, Minnesota, at the Canadian border, where it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य पक्ष of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas, Texas, जहाँ it is ज्ञात as उत्तर सेंट्रल एक्सप्रेसवे.
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route, from Canada to the गल्फ of मैक्सिको at galveston, टेक्सास.
However, the entire segment south of Dallas, Texas has been decommissioned in favor of अंतरराज्यीय 45, a कटऑफ खण्ड of town-to-town सतह road having become State Highway 75.
Lower Ninth Ward is a पड़ोस of the नगर of New Orleans.
As the name implies, it is part of the नवीं वार्ड of नई Orleans.
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New ऑरलियन्स downriver of the औद्योगिक कनाल ; however, the City Planning Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the मिसिसिपी नदी, `` bas '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology.
But the 9th Ward, जैसे सब wards in नई ऑरलियन्स, is a voting district.
The 9th वार्ड थी added as a voting district in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th वार्ड is रचित of वार्ड 9 जिले 1, 2, 4, और 7 जिससे मेक up the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 Districts 3, 5, 6, and 8.
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the औद्योगिक कनाल.
The area came to national attention for its devastation in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Hubble views of Copernicus crater ( इनसेट ), जिससे is परिचय 58 मील ( 93 km ) चौड़ी
Red and orange tinted Moon, as seen from Earth during a lunar eclipse, जहाँ the धरती आता between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only प्राकृतिक उपग्रह of the धरती, और the पांचवां largest उपग्रह in the Solar System.
It is the largest natural satellite of a planet in the Solar प्रणाली सापेक्ष to the आकार of इसके प्राथमिक, having 27 % the व्यास और 60 % the घनत्व of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The Moon is the second densest satellite बाद io, a उपग्रह of बृहस्पति.
The Moon is in तुल्यकालिक रोटेशन साथ धरती, सदा प्रर्दशित the वही फेस साथ इसके निकट side marked by dark volcanic maria that fill between the bright ancient crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters.
It is the brightest ऑब्जेक्ट in the आसमान बाद the सूर्य, हालांकि its surface is actually very dark, with a reflectance similar to that of coal.
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have, चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, बना the चंद्रमा an महत्वपूर्ण cultural influence on language, calendars, art and mythology.
The चंद्रमा 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक influence produces the ocean tides and the minute lengthening of the day.
The Moon 's current orbital अलहदा, परिचय तीस टाइम्स the व्यास of the धरती, कल्याणकारी it to appear लगभग the same size in the sky as the Sun, allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses.
This मिलान of apparent विज़ुअल size is a coincidence.
The Moon 's रैखिक अलहदा इससे the धरती is फिलहाल increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm per year, but this rate is not constant.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 अरब years ago, not long after the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past, the current most widely स्वीकृत स्पष्टीकरण is कि the चंद्रमा formed इससे the मलबा left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
The Moon is the only celestial body other than धरती on जिससे इंसानो have set foot.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo program हासिल the तभी मानवयुक्त मिशन to तिथि, शुरूआत साथ the पहला मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting मिशन by अपोलो 8 in 1968, और छह मानवयुक्त चंद्र अवतरण between 1969 और 1972, साथ the पहला होने अपोलो 11.
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks, which have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins, the formation of इसके आतंरिक ढांचा, और इसके subsequent इतिहास.
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972, the Moon has been visited only by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the फाइनल सोवियत Lunokhod rover.
Since 2004, Japan, China, India, the United States, and the European स्पेस एजेंसी have प्रत्येक भेजा lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar water ice in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और बंधी into the चंद्र regolith.
Future मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा have been planned, including government as well as privately funded efforts.
The Moon remains, under the Outer स्पेस सन्धि, फ़्री to सब राष्ट्र to explore for peaceful purposes.
Ronald विल्सन reagan ( ; फ़रवरी 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he was the 33rd Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ), and a रेडियो, फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न कर्ता.
Born in tampico, इलिनोइस, और उठाया in डिक्सन, reagan थी शिक्षित at यूरेका College, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology.
After graduating, Reagan moved first to Iowa to कार्य as a रेडियो प्रसारणकर्ता और तब, in 1937, to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began a career as an actor, first in films and later television.
Some of his most notable films include knute rockne, सब अमरीकी ( 1940 ), Kings Row ( 1942 ), and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a प्रवक्ता लिये सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in politics occurred during his work for GE.
Originally a member of the Democratic Party, his स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s, और he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry goldwater 's अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवारी in 1964, he थी persuaded to seek the California governorship, winning two years later and again in 1970.
He was defeated in his run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976, लकिन जीती दोनो the नामांकन और सामान्य चुनाव in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As president, Reagan implemented sweeping नई राजनैतिक and economic initiatives.
His supply-side economic policies, dubbed `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth, controlling the money सप्लाई to reduce महंगाई, deregulation of the economy, and reducing government spending.
In his first term he survived an assassination attempt, took a मुश्किल लकीर विरूद्ध मजदूर संघ, घोषित a नई युद्ध on दवाएँ, and ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984, proclaiming कि it थी `` Morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily चिह्नित by विदेशी matters, ऐसे as the समाप्ति of the ठंडा युद्ध, the 1986 bombing of Libya, and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire ``, he supported anti-communist आंदोलनों विश्वव्यापी और खर्च उसके पहला पद forgoing the रणनीति of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव, culminating in the inf Treaty and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan बाएँ दफ्तर in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed that he had been diagnosed with अल्जाइमर 's बीमारी पहले in the साल ; he died टेन सालो later at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he बाँधने अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय polls of U.S. Presidents and is credited for generating an ideological renaissance on the American political right.
पूरा नियत of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a name used in judaism लिये the canon of the यहूदी बाइबल.
The Tanakh is also known as the masoretic टेक्स्ट or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '', भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` कि which is read '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a कावासाकी 600 cc class sport motorcycle.
It was introduced in 1995, and has been constantly अद्यतनीकृत throughout the years in response to new products from Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s और स्टिल carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and plots on राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम numerous : अधिक than 20 attempts to kill sitting and former presidents, as well as the Presidents-elect, are known.
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. Garfield ( the 20th President ), William McKinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ).
Two राष्ट्रपतियों यहूद घायल in attempted assassinations : former President Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th President ), and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the historian J.W. Clarke has suggested that most American assassinations were politically motivated actions, carried out by rational men, नहीं सब ऐसे हमले have महरूम undertaken for political reasons.
Some attackers had questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, and a few were judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been elected from the same राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष, the हत्या of the अध्यक्ष is असंभावित to परिणाम in major policy changes.
This may explain क्यों राजनैतिक समूह typically do not make such attacks.
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 परिचय a लड़के जो खरीदता और रेल दो Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in वेस्ट दक्षिण सेंट्रल संयुक्त States.
ओक्लाहोमा is the 20th सबसे extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States.
The state 's name is निकला इससे the choctaw शब्द okla और humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें the संघ.
Its residents are known as oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and agriculture, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of विमानन, उर्जा, दूरसंचार, और जैवप्रौद्योगिकी.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation, ranking among the top राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रों.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, और पूर्वी वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट Plains and the U.S. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions और historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव, a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Redwall, by Brian ज़ाक, is a श्रेणी of children 's fantasy novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the book और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels ( redwall, mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The books हैं primarily aimed at पुरानी children, but have fans of all ages.
वहीँ have महरूम twenty-two novels and two picture books published.
The twenty-second, and final, अनोखा, the दुष्ट क्रू, थी posthumously released on May 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by आवाज़ in the संयुक्त States and is stated in cubic feet.
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to fill a आवाज़ of एक घन पैर अंतर्गत नियत शर्तें of दबाव और temperature.to माप larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet.
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels, उर्जा सामग्री is measured in शर्तें of `` अंग्रेजों थर्मल इकाई ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of ऊष्मा जरूरी to उठाएँ एक पाउंड of जल ( लगभग a pint ), one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- SI unit of ऊष्मा उर्जा बराबर to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is approximately the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic feet ( प्रायः referred to as 1 ccf ) of natural gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content, a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to बदलें the आवाज़ of गैस प्रयुक्त to इसके ऊष्मा समतुल्य, and thus calculate the actual energy use.
The therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the units therms/CCF.
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons in the प्राकृतिक gas.
Natural gas with a higher than average विशेषज्ञता of इथेन, प्रोपेन or ब्यूटेन होगा have a higher therm factor.
Impurities, such as carbon dioxide or नाइट्रोजन, निम्नतर the therm फ़ैक्टर.
The volume of the gas is गणना as if measured at मानक temperature and pressure ( STP ).
The heat content of natural gas is solely dependent on the संयोजन of the गैस, और is स्वतंत्र of तापमान और pressure.
One therm is equal to about 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by परिचय of natural gas.
The therm sometimes has been confused साथ the thermie ( देखिए नीचे ).
The names of both units come from the यूनानी शब्द लिये ऊष्मा.
A thermie ( th ) is a मीट्रिक ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा, भाग of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by European engineers.
The thermie is equal to the amount of energy required to उठाएँ the तापमान of 1 टन of जल by 1 °C.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration होता नहीं initiate सिविल war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did और none पहचाना the नई confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln जारी the emancipation Proclamation, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28, 1949 ) is a former U.S. track and field athlete, प्रेरक स्पीकर, socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और बिजनेसमैन.
He जीती the सुनहरा पदक लिये decathlon in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition, he शादीशुदा क्रिस कार्दशियन, और उसके पेशेवर करियर विकसित into being a television celebrity.
By 1981, he had starred in several made-for-tv फिल्मों और थी erik एस्ट्राडा 's बदलना on the शीर्ष rated TV series CHiPs.
He has six children : बर्ट, केसी, ब्रैंडन, Brody, Kendall and Kylie.
Since his 1991 marriage to Kris Jenner, he is the stepfather to कोर्टनी, Kim, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
Since 2007, he has appeared with उसके blended परिवार on keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly मिला in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some serotypes can cause serious खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो, और हैं occasionally जिम्मेदार लिये उत्पाद recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut, and can लाभ उनके होस्ट by producing विटामिन k2, और by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora, and fecal–oral transmission is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे रोगजनक strains of the bacterium cause disease.
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time, which makes them ideal indicator जीवों to परीक्षण पर्यावरणीय नमूने लिये fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing देह of शोध कि रै examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can भी be grown easily और inexpensively in a प्रयोगशाला setting, and has been intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. कोलाई is the सबसे widely पढ़ाई prokaryotic मॉडल सजीव, और an important species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology, where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North American telephone area code लिये much of पश्चिमी और सेंट्रल Illinois.
The 217 area includes Illinois ' capital, Springfield, plus Champaign, Urbana, Decatur, danville, क्विंसी, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the original area कोड, जिससे यहूद निर्मित in 1947.
The only significant change in 217 's सीमाएँ थी in 1957, जब इसके northern portion was combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309.
Image of the largest Antarctic ozone छेद कभी अंकित ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the Southern pole
Layers of the माहौल ( नहीं to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक in the कुल आवाज़ of ओज़ोन in धरती 's stratosphere ( the ओज़ोन परत ), और a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ओज़ोन hole.
In जोड to ये well-known stratospheric phenomena, there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events.
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, but the most महत्वपूर्ण प्रक्रम in दोनो is catalytic विनाश of ओज़ोन by atomic halogens.
The main source of these halogen atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( cfcs, freons, halons ).
These compounds हैं transported into the stratosphere बाद being emitted at the surface.
Both प्रकार of ओज़ोन depletion यहूद observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs and other contributory substances हैं referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed and प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ओज़ोन have उत्पन्न विश्वव्यापी चिंता अग्रणी to अपनाना of the मॉन्ट्रियल प्रोटोकॉल that bans the production of CFCs, halons, and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a variety of biological consequences such as increases in स्किन कर्कट, cataracts, क्षति to पौधे, और कटौती of प्लवक populations in the समंदर 's photic मण्डल may परिणाम इससे the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the United States संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' इरादों regarding the संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism और सोशल democracy.
czechoslovakian शॉट putter plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
the शॉट put ( सुनाया ) is a track and field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing motion ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible.
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the आधुनिक ओलंपिक since their revival in 1896, women 's competition began in 1948.
Map of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य, साथ उनके territories ( सहित निर्भर territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य, और प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a सदस्य of the United Nations General Assembly.
The criteria for प्रवेश of नई सदस्यों हैं नियत out in the United Nations Charter, Chapter II, Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative मत इससे at तनिक नौ of the परिषद 's पंद्रह सदस्यों, साथ none of the five permanent members voting against.
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently स्वीकृत in the सामान्य सभा by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign states can become un सदस्यों, और फिलहाल सब un सदस्यों हैं sovereign राज्य ( हालांकि a few सदस्यों यहूद नहीं sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo Convention criteria are not members क्युकी the un करता नहीं consider उन्हें to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members.
In addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member राज्य ( फिलहाल दो : the पावन देखिए और फिलिस्तीन ), intergovernmental संगठन, और अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing them to participate and speak, but not vote, in General Assembly meetings.
The Eiffel Tower (, ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris, नामित बाद the इंजीनियर gustave एफिल, जिनकी कम्पनी designed और निर्मित the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become both a वैश्विक सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक of फ़्रांस और एक of the सबसे recognizable structures in the world.
The मीनार is the tallest ढांचा in पेरिस और the most-visited सशुल्क स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 million people ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the यूरोपीय संघ और the उच्चतम in यूरोपीय as long as the मंच of the Ostankino Tower, at, remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received its 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
the मीनार स्टैंड लम्बा, परिचय the same height as an 81-storey building.
During its construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the शीर्षक of the tallest man-made ढांचा in the संसार, a शीर्षक it आयोजित लिये 41 years, until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930.
Because of the जोड, in 1957, of the antenna atop the Eiffel Tower, it is now taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not सहित ब्रॉडकास्ट एन्टेना, it is the second-tallest structure in France, after the Millau Viaduct.
The tower has three levels for विज़िटर.
Tickets can be purchased to ascend, by stairs or लिफ्ट ( लिफ्ट ), to the पहला और दूसरी levels.
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 कदम, as is the चलना इससे the first to the second level.
The third and highest स्तर is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public.
The first and दूसरी स्तर have restaurants.
The tower has become the most prominent प्रतीक of दोनो पेरिस और फ़्रांस, often in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ प्रतियोगी and author.
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest winning streak on the u.S. syndicated खेल show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time leading money winner on अमरीकी खेल shows.
In 2004, Jennings जीती 74 jeopardy !
games before he was defeated by challenger नैंसी zerg on उसके 75th रूप.
उसके कुल आय on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place पुरस्कार in उसके 75th रूप, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of champions, as खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge.
During his पहला चलाएं of Jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings earned the रिकार्ड लिये the highest American game show winnings.
His total was surpassed by Brad rutter, जो पराजित जेनिंग्स in the finals of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on may 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the रिकार्ड बाद appearing on several other game shows, culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on October 10, 2008 ), हालांकि rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड.
After his success on Jeopardy !, Jennings wrote about his experience and explored American ट्रिविया इतिहास और संस्कृति in उसके किताब brainiac : adventures in the जिज्ञासु, प्रतिस्पर्धी, बाध्यता संसार of Trivia Buffs, published in 2006.
the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in French ) is a professional sports league located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian football, a form of gridiron फ़ुटबॉल closely सम्बन्धित to अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल.
Its eight वर्तमान टीमों, which are located in eight separate cities, are divided into two divisions of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division.
The लीग 's 19-week नियमित ऋतु रनों इससे लेट June to early November ; each team plays 18 games with one bye week.
Following the regular season, the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than the third place team in the अन्य प्रभाग, जब the टोली साथ the बेहतर रिकार्ड makes the playoffs और `` crosses over '' to the अन्य प्रभाग 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week divisional playoffs, which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
The CFL was officially founded on January 19, 1958, making it the second oldest gridiron football league in North अमेरिका स्टिल in आपरेशन, हालांकि सब इसके टीमों long predate the आधुनिक formation of the league.
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football, the most popular फ़ुटबॉल लीग in कनाडा, और the second-most popular major sports league in Canada, after the National Hockey League.
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most popular sport, the CFL has increased the लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल in Quebec and Western Canada.
Canadian फ़ुटबॉल is भी निभाई at amateur स्तर ( i.e. youth, high school, CJFL, QJFL, CIS and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s होगा be a significant दशक for the CFL in terms of growth, as teams have renovated, expanded stadiums, or plan to build entirely new stadiums.
The Montreal Alouettes accomplished this first, adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in समय लिये the 2010 cfl season.
The Edmonton Eskimos and कैला स्तेमपेड्रस भी संवर उनके संबंधित stadiums and facilities for the 2010 season.
In 2011, the BC Lions played under a new, retractable छत in bc प्लेस बाद spending one and a half seasons at Empire Field.
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new stadium at the विश्वविद्यालयों of मनिटोबा, अनुसूचित to खोलें in समय लिये the 2013 season.
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new ओटावा मताधिकार हैं भी looking at नई or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years.
There are also hopes of expanding the league to अटलांटिक कनाडा ( ideally basing a टोली in either the अधिक आबादी halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports historian Douglas Brei, the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports league in North America, major or minor league, in which each existing मताधिकार रै जीती at तनिक एक league title while in their current location.
Each antibody binds to a विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ; an बातचीत समान to a lock and key.
An antibody ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ), is a large Y-shaped प्रोटीन उत्पादित by b-cells कि is प्रयुक्त by the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses.
The एंटीबॉडी recognizes a अद्वितीय part of the foreign target, called an antigen.
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an एंटीबॉडी contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a lock ) that is specific for one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on an antigen, allowing these two structures to bind together with precision.
Using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the immune प्रणाली, or can neutralize इसके निशाना सीधे ( लिये उदाहरण, by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ).
The production of antibodies is the प्रमुख फलन of the humoral immune system.
Antibodies are secreted by a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका पुकारा a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms, a soluble form कि is स्रावित इससे the कोशिका, और a झिल्ली -bound रूप कि is संलग्न to the surface of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ).
The BCR is only found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody factories called plasma कोशिकाएं, or मेमोरी b कोशिकाएं कि होगा जीवित in the देह और याद कि वही प्रतिजन so the b cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, interaction of the b कोशिका साथ a t हेल्पर कोशिका is जरुरी to उपज पूरा activation of the B cell and, therefore, antibody generation following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies are released into the blood and ऊतक fluids, as खूब as अनेक secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms.
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
antibodies हैं typically बना of मौलिक संरचनात्मक units—each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains.
There are several different types of एंटीबॉडी भारी जंजीरों, और अनेक अलग kinds of antibodies, which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals, which perform different roles, and help सीधा the उचित प्रतिरक्षा जवाब लिये प्रत्येक अलग प्रकार of foreign object they encounter.
Though the general structure of all antibodies is बहुत समान, a छोटी प्रदेश at the टिप of the प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय, allowing लाखो of antibodies with slightly different tip structures, or antigen binding sites, to exist.
इस प्रदेश is known as the hypervariable region.
Each of these variants can bind to a अलग antigen.
This विशाल विविधता of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens.
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a नियत of जीन खण्ड कि encode अलग प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट ( or paratopes ), followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene, which create further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a प्रक्रम पुकारा क्लास switching कि परिवर्तन the आधार of the भारी कड़ी to another, बनाना a अलग isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region.
This allows a single एंटीबॉडी to be प्रयुक्त by अनेक अलग parts of the immune system.
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his पत्राचार
The Zodiac कातिल थी a सीरियल कातिल जो संचालित in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
The killer 's पहचान remains अनजान.
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, Vallejo, झील berryessa, और सैन फ्रांसिस्को between दिसम्बर 1968 और अक्तूबर 1969.
Four men and three महिलाओं between the आयु of 16 और 29 were targeted.
The killer originated the नाम `` zodiac '' in a श्रेणी of taunting letters sent to the local Bay Area press.
These अक्षर शामिल चार cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms भेजा, तभी एक रै been definitively solved.
Suspects have been named by law enforcement and amateur investigators, लकिन no conclusive प्रमाण रै surfaced.
In April 2004, the सैन फ्रांसिस्को पुलिस विभाग marked the case `` inactive '', yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007.
The case भी remains खोलें in the नगर of vallejo, as well as in Napa County and Solano County.
The California Department of इंसाफ रै कायम an खोलें मामला file on the Zodiac murders since 1969.
Jennings is a small city in and the parish seat of Jefferson Davis Parish, louisiana, संयुक्त राज्य, निकट झील चार्ल्स.
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, a छोटी मनाही from the 2000 tabulation.
The नगर is 68 प्रतिशत white.
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings micropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish.
It is also part of the larger Lake charles-jennings संयुक्त Statistical Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of पदार्थ on an atomic and molecular scale.
The earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale उत्पाद, भी अभी referred to as आणविक nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National nanotechnology पहल, जिससे defines nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale, and so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research और technologies कि सौदे साथ the खास गुण of पदार्थ कि occur नीचे the दिए आकार threshold.
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of शोध and applications whose common trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including औद्योगिक और सैन्य ), सरकारें have invested अरबों of डॉलर in nanotechnology research.
through इसके National Nanotechnology Initiative, the USA has invested 3.7 billion dollars.
The European Union has invested 1.2 अरब और जापानी 750 लाख डॉलर.
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally बहुत व्यापक, सहित फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as surface science, organic chemistry, molecular biology, semiconductor physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated शोध और अनुप्रयोग हैं बराबर विविध, ranging इससे एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly, from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale.
Scientists फिलहाल बहस the future implications of nanotechnology.
nanotechnology may be समर्थ to बनाएँ many new materials and devices with a vast range of applications, such as in medicine, electronics, biomaterials and energy production.
On the other hand, nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any new technology, including concerns about the toxicity and पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials, और उनके संभावित effects on global economics, as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a बहस among वकालत समूह और governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
मैप of the Eastern Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the former communist states of Central and Eastern यूरोपीय, generally the सोवियत संघ और the देशों of the Warsaw Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote groupings of राज्य लकीर साथ the सोवियत संघ, हालांकि these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe.
The New जर्सी gubernatorial चुनाव of 2009 took place on November 3, 2009.
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and was being challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस क्रिस्टी, स्वतंत्र क्रिस्टोफर Daggett and nine others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
Christie won the election, with about 48.5 percent of the vote, to 44.9 प्रतिशत लिये corzine और 5.8 प्रतिशत लिये Daggett.
Christie won the largest हाशिया लिये a पहला पद रिपब्लिकन चूंकि 1969.
Christie assumed दफ्तर on जनवरी 19, 2010.
This was the first election to fill the newly निर्मित दफ्तर of Lieutenant Governor.
The candidates for governor and lieutenant governor were joined साथ as a सिंगल चुनाव, so कि मतदाता किया not have the opportunity to split the ticket.
Kim guadagno, क्रिस्टी 's कार्यशील mate, became नई जर्सी 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration.
स्वास्थ्य परवाह in the संयुक्त राज्य is provided by many distinct organizations.
Health care सुविधाएं हैं largely स्वामित्व और संचालित by private sector businesses.
Health insurance for public सेक्टर कर्मचारी is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and बिता आता इससे कार्यक्रम ऐसे as medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, the Children 's Health Insurance Program, and the Veterans Health Administration.
Most of the population under 65 is insured by their or a परिवार सदस्य 's नियोक्ता, कुछ ख़रीदे स्वास्थ्य बीमे on their own, and the remainder are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income देशों पढ़ाई by the नेशनल संस्थान of स्वास्थ्य in 2013, the संयुक्त राज्य थी at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु, heart and lung disease, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, such मुद्दे प्लेस the u.S. at the bottom of the list for life expectancy.
On average, a U.S. male can be अपेक्षित to सजीव लगभग चार fewer years than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ), the United States खर्च अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रति capita ( $ 7,146 ), और अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States last in the विशेषता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह among समान देशों, and notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents, 16.3 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, यहूद uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान ( iom ) report said : `` The United States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that does not guarantee access to health care for its population. ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the एक्सेप्शन of मैक्सिको, तुर्कों, और the United States, all OECD countries had achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक मौतों प्रत्येक साल in the United States.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers लिये bankruptcies claimed ऊँची चिकित्सा खर्च.
A 2013 पढ़ाई मिला कि परिचय 25 % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित दिवालियापन due to चिकित्सा खर्च, and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence.
On March 23, 2010, the रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major changes in health insurance.
In physiology, body water is the water सामग्री of the इंसान देह.
A significant fraction of the human body is water.
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total amount of जल in a man of औसत वज़न ( 70 गामा ) is approximately 40 litres, averaging 57 percent of his total body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as high as 75 percent of the देह वज़न, लकिन it progressively decreases इससे जनम to बूढ़ा age, most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life.
Also, obesity decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in the देह, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
These figures are सांख्यिकीय averages, so हैं illustrative, और जैसे सब biostatistics, होगा vary साथ बाते जैसे प्रकार of population, age and number of people sampled, and methodology.
So there is not, and can not be, a figure that is exactly the same for all people, for this or कोई अन्य physiological माप.
For example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a figure of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, which approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where body water is affected, the compartment or compartments कि have बदला can दे clues to the nature of the problem.
Body water is regulated by hormones, सहित anti-diuretic हार्मोन ( ADH ), aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide.
Per Netter 's Atlas of इंसान physiology, देह जल is टूटा down into the following compartments:
Intracellular द्रव ( 2/3 of देह water ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 litres of fluid, about 25 litres is intracellular, जिससे amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), बंद पर्याप्त to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
Jackson 's texts states 70 % of देह द्रव is intracellular.
Extracellular द्रव ( 1/3 of देह जल ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, for a 40 litre body, about 15 litres is extracellular, which amounts to 37.5 % again, इस is बंद to the 1/3 नियम of thumb cited here.
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per guyton 's illustration, of the 15 litres of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the वही as प्रति Netter 's Atlas.
Interstitial fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a. `` third space, '' सामान्यतः उपेक्षित in calculations )
Contained inside organs, such as the जठरांत्र, प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु, उदरावरणीय, और ocular fluids.
Self-esteem is a term used in मनोविज्ञान to प्रतिबिंबित a person 's overall emotional evaluation of his or her own worth.
It is a judgement of oneself as खूब as an रवैया toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i am competent, '' `` i am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph, despair, pride and shame.
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what we think परिचय the स्वः ; self-esteem, is the धनात्मक or ऋणात्मक evaluations of the स्वः, as in how we feel about it. ''
self-esteem is भी ज्ञात as the evaluative dimension of the self that includes feelings of worthiness, prides and discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is भी closely संबद्ध साथ self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition that a person has जिससे represents their judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, मॉरिस rosenberg और social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the अनुभव of होने competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of their क्षमता to फेस जीवन 's चुनौतियां, to समझे and solve problems, and their right to achieve happiness, and be given respect.
As a social psychological construct, self-esteem is आकर्षक क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem has also been treated as an important निष्कर्ष due to इसके बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being ( Marsh 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example, `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( लिये उदाहरण, `` i मानना i am a ख़राब व्यक्ति, and feel bad about myself in general '' ).
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), हालांकि सामान्य, short-term विसंगतियाँ ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem शामिल : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge, is the basic organisational unit of freemasonry.
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand Lodge, but is subject to its direction only in enforcing the प्रकाशित संविधान of the क्षेत्राधिकार.
by एक्सेप्शन the तीन surviving lodges कि formed the संसार 's पहला ज्ञात ग्रैंड आवास in लंदन ( today called the United Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique privilege to operate as time immemorial i.e. without such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London, although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A Freemason is generally हकदार to विज़िट कोई आवास, in कोई क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e. under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own.
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to Master Masons ( कि is, freemasons जो have attained the Order 's third degree ).
He is पहला usually required to check, and certify, the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership.
Freemasons gather together as a आवास to कार्य the तीन मौलिक डिग्री of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington Group Limited is a बहुराष्ट्रीय कांच निर्माण company headquartered in St Helens, United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group.
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an स्वतंत्र कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध on the लंदन Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one, particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to इसके असली सोर्स, और it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form of अभिव्यक्ति, विशेषकर भाग of कलाकारी works : तत्व of a पेंटिंग, दृश्यों from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके फल, जिससे is प्रायः सूखी और प्रयुक्त as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is लगभग in व्यास, अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क, और, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be described बस as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is देशी to दक्षिण इण्डिया, और is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used since प्राचीनता लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a medicine.
Black pepper is the संसार 's सबसे traded spice.
It is one of the most common spices added to यूरोपीय भोजन और इसके descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin कि देता मांसल peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, often युग्म साथ नमक.
Fire hydrant in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ), is an active fire protection measure, and a source of water provided in most urban, suburban और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका जल सेवा to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since अग्निशमन चाहिए be समर्थ to अधिक rapidly बुझा a आग on the insured property.
the अवधारणा of fire plugs dates to at least the 17th century.
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the लकड़ी जल मेन्स और hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires.
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well, और be transported इससे the खूब to the fire by bucket brigades or, later, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, सामान्यतः redwood, जिससे over समय आए to be known as fire plugs.
The स्थान of the प्लग होता प्रायः be अंकित or marked so that it could be reused in future fires.
This is the source of the colloquial term fire प्लग स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये आग hydrants आज.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed water mains with holes drilled at intervals, equipped with risers, allowing an अभिगम पाइंट to the wooden fire plugs from street level.
the आविष्कार of a post- or pillar-type आग hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff Sr., Chief Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet barrel '' डिज़ाइन साथ the वाल्व in the शीर्ष.
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant, but this can not be सत्यापित क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
The President of the Republic of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी अंतर्गत South Africa 's Constitution.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of राज्य थी पुकारा the State President.
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, and is usually the leader of the largest party, which has been the African National कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the पहला non-racial चुनावों यहूद आयोजित on 27 अप्रैल 1994.
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of प्रधान मंत्री, लकिन the दो भूमिकाएँ यहूद मिलाया in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office.
The 1993 and later constitutions limits the president 's समय in दफ्तर to दो five-year शर्तें.
The first President to be elected under the new constitution was Nelson Mandela, and the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष is याक़ूब Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), there was a Government of National Unity, in जिससे an mp इससे the largest विपक्ष पार्टी थी हकदार to a स्थिति as Deputy President.
Along with Thabo Mbeki, the last State President, F.W. De Klerk also served as Deputy अध्यक्ष, in उसके क्षमता as the नेता of the नेशनल पार्टी जिससे was the second-largest party in the new Parliament.
But De Klerk later resigned और गई into opposition with his party.
A voluntary coalition सरकारी continues to मौजूद अंतर्गत the नई संविधान ( adopted in 1996 ), although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.
Special education or special needs शिक्षा is the शिक्षा of विद्यार्थी with special needs in a way that addresses the students ' individual differences and needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures, adapted equipment and materials, accessible settings, and other interventions designed to सहायता learners साथ खास needs achieve a उच्चतर स्तर of निजी self-sufficiency और कामयाबी in स्कूल और जातियाँ than होता be उपलब्धियाँ if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include challenges with learning, communication challenges, emotional and behavioral विकार, शारीरिक disabilities, और developmental disorders.
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from अतिरिक्त शैक्षणिक सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches to teaching, use of technology, a specifically adapted teaching area, or resource room.
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम, लकिन the पद `` खास शिक्षा '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically indicate निर्देश of विद्यार्थी जिनकी खास needs reduce उनके क्षमता to सीख independently or in an ordinary कक्षा, और gifted education is handled separately.
In most developed countries, शिक्षक हैं modifying शिक्षण विधि और environments so कि the maximum number of students are served in general education environments.
खास शिक्षा in विकसित देशों is प्रायः regarded कम as a `` place '' and more as `` a range of services, available in every school. ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas और improve अकादमिक achievement for many students.
The opposite of special शिक्षा is सामान्य शिक्षा.
General education is the मानक curriculum presented with standard teaching methods and without additional supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12, 1930, as Schwartz György ) is a hungarian-american कारोबार महारथी, निवेशकों, और लोकसेवक.
He is the अध्यक्ष of सोरोस निधि Management.
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
He is ज्ञात as `` the man जो broke the बैंको of England `` because of his in investment profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave away over $ 8 अरब to इंसान अधिकारों, public health, and education causes.
He played a significant role in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of Europe 's largest उच्चतर शिक्षा endowments to सेंट्रल European University in Budapest.
Soros is also the chairman of the खोलें समाज संस्थान.
An actor portraying Alexander ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an early model telephone.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the इतिहास of जिससे involves a संग्रहण of दावा और counterclaims.
the विकास of the आधुनिक विद्युत टेलीफोन शामिल an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies.
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, इससे धारणा of the विचार of an इलेक्ट्रिक voice-transmission यंत्र, to विफल कोशिशें to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' current, to successful experiments with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson, and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century.
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई परे the स्नातक 's degree ( BFA ), although the term of study will vary by country or by university.
The MFA is a creative degree usually awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in विज़ुअल कला, रचनात्मक लिखने, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing arts.
coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature with the program often culminating in a major work or performance.
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally जरूरी a स्नातक 's उपाधि prior to प्रवेश, लकिन अनेक do नहीं आवश्यकता that the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA field of study.
The most important admissions आवश्यकता रै प्रायः महरूम a नमूना portfolio or a performance audition.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA, while an academic program, centers around practice in the particular field, whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma प्रायः बीच on the scholarly, अकादमिक, or नाजुक study of the field.
Additionally, in the United States, an MFA is recognized as a टर्मिनल उपाधि लिये practitioners of विज़ुअल आर्ट, डिज़ाइन, नृत्य, थिएटर, film/video, नई मीडिया, और रचनात्मक लिखने - अर्थ कि it is माना to be the highest degree in its field, and is used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines.
There are अपवाद to इस मानक in the कला, notably in the मामला of म्यूज़िक प्रदर्शन, जहाँ the MFA is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the कनेक्शन between रचनात्मक उत्पादन और जारी अकादमिक research, some universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing, visual arts, new media, design and theater.
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in design and new media, the influx of graduates इससे practice-based phd कार्यक्रम रै नहीं appreciably बदला the मानक for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an ongoing contentious topic, and is the बारंबार विषय of अकादमिक panels, especially at the annual College Art Association conference.
The CAA 2008 दिशानिर्देश regarding the mfa strongly re-affirms that the PhD is not required as a terminal degree in the visual arts.
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the फाइनल stages of World War II in 1945.
The two कार्यक्रम हैं the तभी उपयोग of nuclear weapons in war to date.
Following a firebombing campaign that नष्ट अनेक जापानी शहरों, the allies prepared लिये a costly आक्रमण of जापानी.
The war in Europe ended when Nazi जर्मनी हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र of surrender on 8 May, but the Pacific War continued.
Together with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China, the United States called for a आत्मसमर्पण of जापानी in the पॉट्सडैम घोषणा on 26 जुलाई 1945, threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
the जापानी सरकारी उपेक्षित इस ultimatum, और the United States deployed two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project.
American airmen dropped छोटी लड़के on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first two to चार महीने of the bombings, the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki, with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that, of the people who died on the day of the explosion, 60 % died from flash or flame burns, 30 % इससे गिरना मलबा और 10 % इससे अन्य कल्याणकारी.
During the following months, large numbers died from the effect of burns, विकिरण बीमारी, और अन्य चोटों, compounded by illness.
In a US estimate of the कुल तात्कालिक और छोटी पद कारण of मौत, 15–20 % died from radiation sickness, 20–30 % from burns, and 50–60 % from other injuries, compounded by illness.
In both cities, most of the dead were नागरिकों, हालांकि हिरोशिमा था a sizeable garrison.
On 15 August, six days after the bombing of Nagasaki, Japan announced its surrender to the Allies, signing the Instrument of Surrender on 2 September, officially समाप्ति संसार युद्ध II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war जापानी 's adopting तीन non-nuclear सिद्धान्त, forbidding the nation from nuclear armament.
The role of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and their नैतिक औचित्य हैं स्टिल debated.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 जनवरी 1948 ), commonly ज्ञात as महात्मा गांधी, थी the preeminent leader of Indian nationalism in British-ruled India.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, Gandhi led India to independence and inspired आंदोलनों लिये non-violence, सिविल अधिकारों और स्वतंत्रता आरपार the world.
The son of a senior government official, Gandhi was born and raised in a Hindu bania जातियाँ in तटीय गुजरात, और प्रशिक्षित in law in London.
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the civil rights of Muslim and Hindu Indians in South अफ़्रीकी, using नई तकनीकों of non-violent सिविल disobedience that he developed.
returning to इण्डिया in 1915, he set about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong opponent of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e. basing politics on religion ) he reached out widely to all religious groups.
he became a नेता of मुसलमान protesting the declining status of the Caliphate.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women 's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, increasing आर्थिक self-reliance, और ऊपर सब लिये achieving स्वराज —the स्वतंत्रता of India from British domination.
Gandhi led इंडियंस in protesting the नेशनल नमक कर साथ the Dandi Salt March in 1930, and later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942, during World War II.
He was imprisoned for that और लिये numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to अभ्यास non-violence और सच्चाई in all situations, and advocated that others do the same.
He saw the गांवों as the कोर of the सच्चा इण्डिया और प्रचारित self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient आवासीय जातियाँ and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl, woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha.
His chief political enemy in ब्रिटेन थी विंस्टन चर्चिल, जो ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian, and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification and political mobilization.
In his last year, unhappy at the partition of India, Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between मुसलमान, हिन्दुओं और सिखों कि raged in the किनारा क्षेत्रफल between India and Pakistan.
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram Godse who thought गांधी थी too सहानुभूतिपूर्ण to India 's Muslims.
30 जनवरी is observed as Martyrs ' Day in India.
The honorific महात्मा ( `` ग्रेट आत्मा '' ) थी लागू to him by 1914.
In इण्डिया he थी also called Bapu ( `` Father '' ).
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his birthday, 2 October, is commemorated there as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and world-wide as the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not सैद्धांतिक लकिन एक of व्यावहारिकतावाद, कि is, practicing his principles in the moment.
Asked to give a message to the people, he होता respond, `` my जीवन is my संदेश. ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23, ca. 1904 – May 10, 1977 ), born Lucille Fay lesueur, थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न और theatre.
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies पहले debuting on ब्रॉडवे, क्रॉफर्ड थी हस्ताक्षरित to a गति चित्र अनुबंध by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925.
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her parts, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, क्रॉफर्ड 's कीर्ति rivaled, and later outlasted, MGM colleagues Norma Shearer and Greta Garbo.
Crawford often played मेहनती यंग महिलाओं जो ढूँढें रोमांस and financial success.
ये `` rags-to-riches '' कहानियां यहूद खूब प्राप्त by Depression -era audiences and were popular with women.
क्रॉफर्ड became एक of हॉलीवुड 's सबसे prominent फिल्म सितारों and one of the highest paid women in the United States, but her films began losing money and by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison ''.
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen, Crawford staged a comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ), लिये जिससे वो जीती the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In 1955, she became शामिल साथ the pepsi-cola Company through her marriage to company Chairman Alfred Steele.
After his death in 1959, Crawford was elected to fill his vacancy on the फलक of निर्देशकों लकिन थी forcibly रिटायर्ड in 1973.
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the 1960s, जब उसके प्रदर्शन became कम ; बाद the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों horror film Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
following a पब्लिक रूप in 1974, बाद जिससे unflattering छायाचित्र यहूद प्रकाशित, Crawford withdrew from public life and became increasingly reclusive until her death in 1977.
क्रॉफर्ड शादीशुदा चार times.
Her first three marriages ended in तलाक ; the पिछला ended with the death of husband Alfred Steele.
She adopted five children, one of whom was reclaimed by उसके जनम माँ.
Crawford 's relationships with her two older children, क्रिस्टीना और क्रिस्टोफर, यहूद acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two and, after Crawford 's death, Christina wrote a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण, mommie dearest, in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford.
She was voted the tenth greatest female star in the history of American cinema by the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान.
1910 Buick tonneau बगैर tonneau cover
1903 घाट मॉडल a rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a मुश्किल or नरम कवर used to protect unoccupied passenger seats in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup truck.
Hard tonneau covers open by a hinging or फोल्डिंग यांत्रिकी while soft covers open by rolling up.
The tonneau cover is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते कार्गो.
When the cover is pulled out, it keeps items out of the sun and provides extra सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं आउट of sight, as well as shielding the driver from view.
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send और पढ़ा text-based संदेश of up to 140 वर्ण, ज्ञात as `` tweets ''.
Twitter was created in March 2006 by Jack Dorsey and by जुलाई, the सोशल नेटवर्किंग site was launched.
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity, with over 500 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता as of 2012, generating over 340 लाख tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day.
Since its launch, Twitter has become one of the टेन सबसे visited वेबसाइटों on the अंतरजाल, और रै महरूम described as `` the SMS of the Internet. ''
Unregistered users can read tweets, while registered users can post tweets through the website interface, SMS, or a range of apps for mobile devices.
Twitter Inc. is आधारित in San Francisco, with additional servers and offices in New York City, Boston, and San Antonio.
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film, co-produced और निर्देशित by टॉड phillips और लिखा by jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the पहला फिल्मी of the hangover franchise.The film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Heather Graham, Justin Bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck, Stu Price and Alan Garner, who सफर to लास वेगास लिये a स्नातक पार्टी to celebrate उनके dost डग billings ' impending marriage.
However, Phil, Stu and Alan have no memory of the पिछला रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम और जरूर ढूँढें डग पहले the wedding can take place.
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive producer क्रिस bender 's dost disappeared और था a विशाल विधेयक after being sent to a strip club.
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million, Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to शामिल a बाघ as खूब as a subplot involving a baby और a पुलिस क्रूजर, और भी सहित boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 दिनों, और दौरान फिल्मांकन, the तीन प्रमुख अभिनेताओं ( कूपर, helms और Galifianakis ) formed a friendship.
The Hangover was released on June 5, 2009, बनने a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009, साथ a विश्वव्यापी gross of over US $ 467 million.
Critics praised the फिल्मी 's comedic approach but criticized it for its vulgarity.
The film won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion चित्र – musical or कॉमेडी, और प्राप्त अनेक अन्य accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009 in the संसार, as खूब as the दूसरी highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी कभी in the संयुक्त राज्य, surpassing a record previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
Out of all R-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing ever in the u.S., पीछे तभी the जुनून of the मसीह and The Matrix Reloaded.
A sequel, The hangover भाग ii, थी released in 2011, और a तीसरा and final film, The Hangover Part III, is set for release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, प्रर्दशित chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell प्रभाग जरुरी लिये यौन जनन in eukaryotes.
The cells produced by meiosis हैं गैमीट or spores.
In many organisms, सहित सब पशु और जमीन पौधे ( लकिन नहीं कुछ other groups such as fungi ), gametes are called sperm and egg cells.
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete, compared with the co-existence of each of the two separate pairs of प्रत्येक chromosome ( एक प्राप्त इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) in प्रत्येक कोशिका जिससे परिणाम from mitosis.
the outcome of meiosis is potentially चार ( genetically अद्वितीय ) अगुणित कोशिकाएं, compared with the two ( genetically identical ) diploid cells produced from mitosis.
Meiosis begins with one द्विगुणित कोशिका containing दो नक़ल of प्रत्येक chromosome —one from the organism 's mother and one from its father.
the कोशिका divides twice, potentially producing up to four haploid cells containing one copy of each chromosome.
( `` potentially '' क्युकी in कुछ मामले, ऐसे as the formation of oocytes in mammals, only one of the possible four haploid cells survives. )
In animals the haploid cell resulting from meiosis is a पुरूष or मादा gamete.
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण of मातृ और पैतृक डीएनए, resulting in औलाद कि हैं genetically distinct from either parent.
This gives rise to genetic diversity in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the विभिन्नता of शारीरिक और behavioural गुण ( phenotypes ) upon जिससे प्राकृतिक चयन can अधिनियम, लकिन, as वर्णित नीचे in खण्ड 6, उत्पत्ति and function of meiosis, the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis.
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis, specific जीनों हैं अधिक अत्यधिक transcribed, और ये हैं called the meiome, the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in जिससे समजात chromosome pairing, synapse and recombination occur.
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ), however, there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g. selective usage of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific प्रोटीन अभिव्यक्ति of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome and translational controls determine the व्यापक restructuring of meiotic कोशिकाएं needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a गोलाकार of डीएनए replication, बनाना इससे the maternal and paternal versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies, sister chromatids, attached at the centromere region.
in the शुरूआत of meiosis the maternal and paternal homologs pair to each other.
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading to crossovers of डीएनए between the मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of the chromosome.
spindle मछली bind to the centromeres of each pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs to opposite poles of the cell.
As the chromosomes move दूर इससे the बीच the कोशिका divides into दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, प्रत्येक containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal and पैतृक homologs have अलग into the दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, a second round of cell division occurs.
वहीँ meiosis ends as the दो सिस्टर chromatids making up each homolog are separated and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, लिये उदाहरण जब a sperm enters an egg cell, two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete इससे the पिता प्रत्येक योगदान एक हाफ of the set of chromosomes that make up the new offspring 's genome.
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis, a type of कोशिका प्रभाग प्रयुक्त by eukaryotes जैसे पौधे और पशु to विभाजित one cell into two identical daughter cells.
In all plants and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of बीजाणुओं : अगुणित कोशिकाएं कि can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization.
Boxing ( pugilism, prize fighting, the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat खेल in जिससे दो लोगों engage in a प्रतियोगिता of शक्ति, गति, reflexes, endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands.
Amateur boxing is an ओलम्पिक और राष्ट्रमंडल खेल और is a आम fixture in सबसे of the प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय खेल - it also has its own World Championships.
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a श्रेणी of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds.
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी, is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम, resigns by फेंकना in a तौलिया, or is सुनाया the विजेता or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be its acceptance by the प्राचीन यूनानियों as an ओलम्पिक खेल as early as 688 BC.
Boxing evolved इससे 16th- और 18th-century prizefights, largely in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, to the forerunner of आधुनिक मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th century, again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States.
In 2004, ESPN ranked मुक्केबाज़ी as the सबसे मुश्किल sport in the world.
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes form depending on the other शब्द to जिससे it relates.
It is an instance of inflection, and usually involves making the value of some grammatical category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between अलग शब्द or भाग of the वाक्य.
For example, in Standard English, एक may कह i am or he is, लकिन not `` I is '' or `` he am ''.
This is क्युकी the व्याकरण of the भाषा requires that the verb and its subject agree in person.
The pronouns I and he are first and third व्यक्ति क्रमशः, as हैं the क्रिया फ़ॉर्म am and is.
The verb form must be selected so that it has the वही व्यक्ति as the subject.
The agreement based on overt व्याकरणिक श्रेणी as ऊपर is औपचारिक अनुबंध, in contrast to notional agreement, which is based on meaning.
For instance, the phrase The United States is treated as singular for उद्देश्य of अनुबंध, भी हालांकि it is formally plural.
This is a list of places below mean sea स्तर कि हैं on land.
Places in tunnels, mines, basements, dug holes ( also with open sky ), under water, under ice, or मौजूदा temporarily as a परिणाम of ebbing of समुद्र tide etc. are not included.
All आंकड़े are in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22, 1948 in Yakima, Washington ) is a best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 रोमांस novels और समकालीन महिलाओं 's fiction.
Over 140 million copies of her books हैं in छपाई throughout the world, and four have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for रोमांस in 2005 और रै महरूम awarded दोनो a रोमांस लेखक of अमेरिका रीता and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in बाल्टीमोर काउंटी, मेरीलैंड, संयुक्त राज्य.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 41,567 at the 2010 census.
The community lies to the वेस्ट of बाल्टीमोर साथ the नगर 's किनारा.
Catonsville is the home of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County ( UMBC ), a public शोध विश्वविद्यालयों साथ over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to Black 's Law शब्दकोष, is `` a person learned in the law ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law. ''
Law is the प्रणाली of नियम of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign सरकारी of a society to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of political and social authority, and deliver justice.
Working as a lawyer involves the व्यावहारिक अनुप्रयोग of अमूर्त legal theories and knowledge to solve specific individualized problems, or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e., hire ) lawyers to perform legal services.
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, और so it can be treated यहाँ in तभी the सबसे general terms.
Vector Marketing is the domestic बिक्री भुजा of cutco निगम, an olean, नई York based cutlery manufacturer.
The Family और चिकित्सा छोड़ अधिनियम of 1993 ( fmla ) is a संयुक्त States federal law requiring covered employers to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and family reasons include : निजी or परिवार बीमारी, परिवार सैन्य छोड़, गर्भावस्था, अपनाना, or the foster care placement of a child.
the fmla is administered by the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.
The bill was a major part of President विधेयक क्लिंटन 's कार्यसूची in his first term.
President Clinton हस्ताक्षरित the विधेयक into विधि on फ़रवरी 5, 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c. sec. 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5, 1993, six months later.
The FMLA was intended `` to balance the demands of the कार्यस्थल साथ the needs of families. ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave दौरान कोई 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी, जनक, जीवनसाथी or child, or for pregnancy or care of a newborn child, or for adoption or foster care of a child.
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave, an employee must have been at the business at least 12 months, and worked at least 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने, और कार्य at a स्थान जहाँ the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles.
the fmla कवर दोनो public- और private-sector कर्मचारी, but certain categories of employees are excluded, including elected officials and their personal staff members.
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict that occurred in Vietnam, Laos, और कंबोडिया इससे 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the पतन of साइगॉन on 30 अप्रैल 1975.
This war followed the First Indochina War and was fought between North Vietnam, समर्थित by इसके कम्युनिस्ट allies, और the government of South Vietnam, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF ), a lightly armed South Vietnamese communist common सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर, largely लड़ा a छापामार war against anti-communist forces in the region.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional युद्ध, at टाइम्स committing विशाल इकाई into बैटल.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct ढूंढें और नष्ट परिचालन, involving मैदान शक्तियां, artillery, and airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the war as a रास्ता to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of दक्षिण वियतनाम as part of their wider strategy of containment.
The North Vietnamese government and Viet Cong were fighting to reunify वियतनाम अंतर्गत कम्युनिस्ट rule.
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war, लड़ा initially विरूद्ध फ़्रांस, समर्थित by the u.S., और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम, जिससे it regarded as a U.S. puppet state.
अमरीकी सैन्य advisors arrived in what was then French Indochina beginning in 1950.
U.S. involvement escalated in the जल्दी 1960s, with troop levels tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units were तैनात शुरूआत in 1965.
Operations spanned international borders, with लाओस और कंबोडिया heavily bombed.
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968, at the समय of the Tet Offensive.
After this, U.S. ground forces were gradually withdrawn as part of a नीति ज्ञात as vietnamization.
Despite the Paris Peace Accords, signed by all पार्टियों in जनवरी 1973, लड़ जारी.
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 अगस्त 1973 as a परिणाम of the Case–Church Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress.
The capture of Saigon by the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित the end of the war, and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year.
the युद्ध exacted a विशाल इंसान लागत in terms of fatalities ( see Vietnam War casualties ).
estimates of the क्रमांक of वियतनामी सैनिको and civilians killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians, 20,000–200,000 Laotians, and 58,220 u.S. सेवा सदस्यों भी died in the conflict.
Cleveland ज्वालामुखी in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space Station, May 2006.
Ash plumes पहुँचे a ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo, Philippines in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet 's सतह or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally found जहाँ tectonic प्लेटों हैं diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic ridge, for example the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually not created जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों slide past one another.
ज्वालामुखी can भी रूप जहाँ वहीँ is stretching और thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the interiors of plates, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This type of volcanism falls under the umbrella of `` थाली परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
Volcanism दूर इससे थाली boundaries has also been explained as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` हॉटस्पॉट ``, लिये उदाहरण हवाई, हैं postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों, नहीं only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect तापमान as राख और droplets of sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however, they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
A deep pothole on नई यॉर्क नगर 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes पुकारा a केतली और ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the surface of a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away, leaving a hole.
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the बहुत छोटी tubes in the गुर्दा कि हस्तांतरण gf ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the most common type of गुर्दा कर्कट in वयस्कों, जिम्मेदार for approximately 80 % of cases.
It is भी ज्ञात to be the सबसे lethal of all the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is most commonly a कट्टरपंथी or आंशिक nephrectomy और remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
जहाँ the ट्यूमर is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year survival rate is 60-70 %, but this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread.
It is relatively resistant to radiation चिकित्सा और कीमोथेरेपी, although some cases respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, और sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC.
Estée Lauder कंपनियाँ, inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of prestige skincare, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.
The company has its मुख्यालय in midtown मैनहटन, New York City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the अस्तर of the abdominal गुहा or the coelom —it कवर सबसे of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a परत of mesothelium समर्थित by a thin layer of connective tissue.
The peritoneum दोनो supports the abdominal अंगों और serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal मांसपेशियां, diaphragm और श्रोणि floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the गुर्दे ), और those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
आधुनिक 2.5 '' ssd प्रयुक्त in consumer laptops and desktop computers.
DDR sdram आधारित SSD.
अधिकतम and.
पीसीआई संलग्न io Accelerator SSD
PCI-E, DRAM, and नन्द आधारित SSD.
It uses an बाह्य शक्ति सप्लाई to मेक the dram non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state डिस्क or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्क, हालांकि it contains no वास्तविक `` डिस्क '' of कोई दयालु ) is a आंकड़ा storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently.
SSD technology uses electronic अंतरफलक संगत साथ परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard disk ड्राइव ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी डिस्क, जिससे contain घूम डिस्क और movable read/write heads.
Compared with electromechanical disks, SSDs are typically less susceptible to physical शॉक, much quieter, have निम्नतर अभिगम time, and less latency.
However, while the price of SSDs has जारी to मनाही in 2012, ssds हैं still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of storage than HDDs.
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव, यूँ permitting simple replacement in common applications.
, most SSDs उपयोग nand-based flash memory, which retains data without power.
For applications requiring fast access, but not necessarily data persistence after शक्ति घाटा, ssds may be constructed इससे random-access memory ( RAM ).
Such devices may employ separate power sources, such as batteries, to maintain आंकड़ा बाद शक्ति loss.
Hybrid ड्राइव or ठोस राज्य संकर ड्राइव ( sshd ) combine the सुविधाएँ of ssds and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.
These devices may प्रस्ताव near-ssd प्रदर्शन for many applications.
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( right ) served साथ माँ of पर्ल caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar.
Ossetra caviar, सामन creme fraiche, आलू shallot croquette, basil oil, egg whites and yolks
Caviar, according to the खाना और कृषि संगठन, is a उत्पाद made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family.
The roe can be `` भैस '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, with pasteurization reducing its culinary and economic value.
Traditionally the term caviar refers only to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the कैस्पियन और ब्लैक Seas ( Beluga, Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the देश, caviar may भी be प्रयुक्त to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon, steelhead, trout, lumpfish, whitefish, and other species of sturgeon.
Caviar is माना a लक्ज़री कोमलता और is eaten as a garnish or a spread.
In 2012, caviar बेची लिये $ 2,500 प्रति pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo.
The SEC Network is a television अनुप्रयोग संजाल featuring सजीव प्रसारण of college football and basketball events from the Southeastern Conference.
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and is shown in more than 50 percent of households in the संयुक्त राज्य, ज़्यादातर southeastern संयुक्त राज्य markets.
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern स्लॉट कि थी पूर्व घर to the Raycom Sports SEC game of the week.
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations, regional sports networks, as खूब as on ईएसपीएन gameplan, ईएसपीएन पूरा अदालत, and ESPN3.com.
The SEC Network is also available in Canada via अटलांटा 's wpch-tv.
The SEC संजाल उपयोग the वही on-screen ग्राफिक्स currently used by ESPN on ABC, a version of ESPN 's graphics package.
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because most of its affiliates do not letterbox उनके मानक परिभाषा फ़ीड्स, जबकि ईएसपीएन 's टेलीविज़न संजाल have अनुमत उनके ग्राफिक्स to abandon the title safe, but letterbox for SD viewers.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season, SEC संजाल 's ग्राफिक्स have महरूम परिवर्तित to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format.
This is also being used for the 2013 Basketball season, but had still adapted the पूर्व 4:3-safe ग्राफिक्स स्वरूप लिये the 2012 सेक फ़ुटबॉल season.
The 1990s, pronounced and also known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or `` the '90s '', थी a दशक कि began on जनवरी 1, 1990, और ended on December 31, 1999.
It was the 10th and last decade of the 20th century and the 100th और पिछला दशक of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the expansion and व्यावसायीकरण of the अंतरजाल दौरान the second half of the decade.
In much of the वेस्ट the 1990s is remembered as a काल of unprecedented सलाम और prosperity, though many parts of the so-called Third World faced various problems including genocide, AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars.
Culturally speaking the decade was characterized by the rise of बहुसंस्कृतिवाद और वैकल्पिक media.
Movements such as grunge, the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to यंग लोगों दौरान the दशक, aided by then-new प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as केबल television and the Internet.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism, the शुरूआत of the फैली अप्रसार of नई मीडिया ऐसे as the Internet, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world, and within countries.
Income inequality among countries in the world rose sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s, पहले levelling बंद और तब गिरना after 2000.
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus, the पूर्व दो जिससे led to the rwandan नरसंहार and Bosnian genocide, respectively.
The United States began its वर्तमान सैन्य occupation of the मध्य ईस्ट दौरान the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply.
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the अरब संसार remained elusive, हालांकि the आयरिश परेशानियों आए to a standstill in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence.
The gray wolf or धूसर भेड़िया ( canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America, Eurasia, and North Africa.
It is the largest member of its परिवार, साथ males averaging, and females.
It is समान in सामान्य रूप और proportions to a German shepherd, or sled dog, but has a larger head, narrower chest, longer legs, straighter tail and bigger paws.
Its winter fur is long and bushy, and predominantly a mottled gray in colour, हालांकि nearly pure श्वेत, रेड, or भूरा to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ), as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार, its more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior.
it is a सोशल एनिमल, यात्राएं in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair, accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring.
The gray wolf is typically an apex predator throughout इसके दायरा, साथ तभी इंसानो और tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It feeds primarily on large ungulates, though it also eats छोटी पशु, पशुधन, carrion, and garbage.
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most well researched animals, with संभवतः अधिक किताबे लिखा परिचय it than कोई अन्य वन्यजीव प्रजाति.
It has a long इतिहास of संघ साथ इंसानो, having महरूम despised और hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes.
It is the sole ancestor of the dog, जिससे थी पहला domesticated in the Middle East.
Although the fear of भेड़ियों is प्रचलित in अनेक इंसान समाजों, the बहुमत of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies.
non-rabid भेड़ियों have attacked और मारे लोगों, मुख्यतः children, लकिन इस is असामान्य, as wolves are relatively few, live away from people, and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to, though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global स्तर, और is इसलिए वर्गीकृत by the आईयूसीएन as तनिक चिंता.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in यूरोपीय, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, had been destabilized through a श्रेणी of सिविल wars.
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire, including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 bc ) ; और the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire यहूद a काल of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
it पहुँचे इसके महानतम expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd सदी, the साम्राज्य underwent a संकट कि threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to शक्ति in the 4th सदी, दौरान जिससे समय a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century, the eastern half जारी as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, and forms of सरकारी in the territory it governed, विशेषकर यूरोपीय, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public sector, with control and funding coming इससे तीन स्तर : लोकल, राज्य, and federal, in that order.
Child education is compulsory, and there are also a large number and wide variety of higher शिक्षा संस्थानों throughout the देश कि एक can चुनें to attend, दोनो सरेआम और privately administered.
पब्लिक शिक्षा is universally available.
School curricula, funding, teaching, नियुक्ति, और अन्य नीतियों हैं नियत through locally निर्वाचित स्कूल boards with jurisdiction over school districts with many directives from state legislatures.
School जिले हैं प्रायः पृथक इससे अन्य local jurisdictions, with independent officials and budgets.
Educational standards and standardized परीक्षण निर्णय हैं प्रायः made by state governments.
The ages for compulsory education vary by राज्य.
It begins from ages five to eight and ends from ages चौदह to अठारह.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be संतुष्ट by educating children in पब्लिक स्कूलों, state-certified private schools, or an approved home school program.
In most public and private schools, education is divided into three स्तर : elementary स्कूल, मध्य स्कूल ( sometimes पुकारा जूनियर ऊँची स्कूल ), और ऊँची स्कूल ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost all schools at these levels, children are divided by age groups into grades, ranging इससे किंडरगार्टन ( followed by पहला ग्रेड ) लिये the youngest children in elementary स्कूल, up to बारहवीं grade, the final year of high school.
The exact age range of students in these grade levels varies थोड़ा इससे क्षेत्रफल to area.
Post-secondary education, better known as `` college `` in the United States, is generally governed separately इससे the elementary और ऊँची स्कूल प्रणाली, और is वर्णित in a separate section below.
Government supported, फ़्री पब्लिक स्कूलों लिये सब प्रारंभ होने स्थापित बाद the क्रान्ति, and expanded in the 19th century, as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
by 1870, सब राज्य था फ़्री elementary स्कूलों, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th century खींचा nearer, राज्य प्रारंभ गुजर कानून to मेक schooling अनिवार्य, and by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
Private schools continued to spread during this time, as well as colleges and—in the ग्रामीण centers— जमीन ग्रान्ट कॉलेजों.
The year of 1910 भी देखी the पहला true high schools.
During the rest of the 20th सदी, शैक्षणिक प्रयत्न केन्द्रित on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education made the desegregation of elementary and high schools a national प्रधानता, जबकि the pell ग्रान्ट कार्यक्रम helped ग़रीब minorities gain access to college.
Special education थी बना into संघीय law in 1975.
The Elementary and Secondary शिक्षा अधिनियम of 1965 बना मानकीकृत परीक्षण a requirement, and in 1983, a commission was established to evaluate their results and propose a course of action.
The resulting No चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 was controversial and its goals proved to be unrealistic.
A commission established in 2006 evaluated उच्चतर शिक्षा, लकिन इसके सुझाव have yet to be fully implemented.
Paul Bragg ( February 6, 1895 – December 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, थी a पायोनियर in America’s wellness movement.
Health spending per capita, in $ us ppp-adjusted, साथ the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations.
Comparison of the health care प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the United States are often made by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care systems before कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s और 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on स्वास्थ्य परवाह than कनाडा, on दोनो a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health care in कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the u.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कि साल ; Canada spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by सरकारी, बनाम 46 % in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % उच्चतर than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता, और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have आइये to अलग conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन मतभेद हैं नहीं consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the u.S., लकिन वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying कल्याणकारी of ये मतभेद.
एक commonly cited तुलना, the 2000 संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन 's दरजा of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the distribution of health, the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the us `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The WHO 's study विधि यहूद criticized by कुछ analyses.
हालांकि वहीँ is a माप of सर्वसम्मति कि life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the population makeup is similar, a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source रै अभी टूटा through the ध्वनि गति अवरोध, and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the ध्वनि लहरें it creates, it दरअसल लीड the advancing wavefront.
The sound सोर्स होगा pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ a speed ) before the observer actually hears the sound it creates.
As a result, an निरीक्षक in सामने of the source will detect
and an निरीक्षक behind the source.
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft moving at m=2.92, गणना इससे the cone angle of 20 degrees.
An observer hears the बूम जब the शॉक wave, on the edges of the cone, crosses his or her location.
Mach कोन कोण
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves created by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the एयर तेज़ than the speed of sound.
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of ध्वनि उर्जा, sounding much like an explosion.
The crack of a supersonic bullet passing ओवरहेड is an उदाहरण of a sonic boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by Jay Leno that initially aired इससे may 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, और resumed उत्पादन on March 1, 2010.
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made its debut on May 25, 1992, तीन दिनों following जॉनी कार्सन 's रिटायरमेंट as host of the program.
The program originates इससे एनबीसी studios in burbank, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और is ब्रॉडकास्ट Monday through Friday at 11:35 PM in the Eastern and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike Carson or his predecessor Jack Paar, Leno only एकबार utilized a अतिथि मेजबान, preferring to मेजबान the श्रेणी by himself.
On April 26, 1999, the show began broadcasting in 1080i hdtv, बनने the पहला अमरीकी nightly बात show to be shot in high definition.
The show is shot in 16:9 पहलू अनुपात.
the श्रेणी, जिससे followed the वही मौलिक स्वरूप as कि of उसके पूर्ववर्तियों ( an opening monologue followed by comedy routines, interviews and performances ), ran until May 29, 2009, after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
NBC signed Leno to a new deal लिये a nightly बात दिखाएँ in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
the प्राइमटाइम श्रेणी, titled the jay लीनो दिखाएँ, debuted on सितंबर 14, 2009, following a similar format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम, जिससे premiered जून 1, 2009, nor the jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected.
The network decided to मूव a सघन 30-minute संस्करण of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot, and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision met with opposition इससे o'brien, जिनकी कार्यावधि on the tonight दिखाएँ ended January 22, 2010, after which he began his own talk show on TBS.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second और वर्तमान incarnation, the sixth of the franchise, on March 1, 2010.
rfid चिप next to a grain of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in उपभोक्ता उत्पाद, और implanted in pets, for identification purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying और ट्रैकिंग टैग संलग्न to वस्तुएँ.
the टैग contain electronically stored information.
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
बैटरी संचालित टैग may operate at hundreds of meters.
नापसंद a बार कोड, the टैग करता नहीं necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID tags हैं प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग.
An RFID tag attached to an ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track its progress through the assembly line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and पालतु may have टैग injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना बगैर सहमति has raised privacy concerns.
Id, ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in सिग्मुंड फ्रायड 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the तीन सैद्धांतिक constructs in शर्तें of जिनकी कार्यकलाप और बातचीत mental life is described.
According to this model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the नाजुक और moralizing भूमिका ; और the अहंकार is the व्यवस्थित, यथार्थवादी भाग कि mediates between the इच्छाओं of the id और the super-ego.
The super-ego can रोकें तुम इससे doing certain things that your id may want you to do.
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus, the id, ego and super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the दिमाग बल्कि than भाग of the दिमाग और do नहीं correspond one-to-one साथ actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical मॉडल '' ) थी पहला discussed in उसके 1920 निबन्ध `` परे the ख़ुशी principle `` और थी formalized and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id ``.
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the ambiguity of the पद `` बेहोश `` और its many conflicting uses.
Air Force rotc emblem
The Air Force Reserve अधिकारी प्रशिक्षण Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force, the other two being the United States Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ).
A अधीनस्थ कमांड of the एयर विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the एयर शिक्षा और प्रशिक्षण कमांड ( aetc ), AFROTC is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The Holm Center, formerly known as the Air फ़ोर्स अधिकारी accession और प्रशिक्षण स्कूलों ( afoats ), retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS.
AFROTC is the largest and oldest सोर्स of commissioned अधिकारियों लिये the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC 's stated mission is to produce quality leaders लिये the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स.
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984 additional institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements कि allow उनके विद्यार्थी to attend afrotc वर्ग at a आसपास `` मेजबान '' कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों.
According to AFOATS HQ, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF Second lieutenants, साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments, '' और हैं typically headed by an क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the रैंक of कर्नल or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as दोनो the detachment कमांडर for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community.
Most colleges and universities will designate the afrotc detachment as the Department of Aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace अध्ययन ( apas ), सब क्रियाशील duty USAF officers in the ranks of major or captain.
Three USAF non-commissioned अधिकारियों और एक वरिष्ठ non-commissioned अधिकारी होगा typically provide सैन्य administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution.
Within AFROTC detachments, the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) हैं व्यवस्थित into विंग्स, समूह, squadrons, और फ़्लाइट, mirroring the यूएसएएफ कार्यात्मक wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the first two years of प्रशिक्षण, और the पेशेवर अधिकारी कोर्स ( poc ) consisting of the पिछला दो years of training.
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training कृत्यों : the अकादमिक कक्षा कार्यक्रम ( aerospace अध्ययन वर्ग ) और cadet क्रियाएँ ( i.e., Leadership Laboratory, Physical Training, and other training ).
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the गूदा और पेपर उद्योग और भी लिये कपड़ा उद्योग to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The term `` density '' is not प्रयुक्त in इसके परंपरागत भाव of mass per unit volume.
`` पेपर घनत्व '', rather, is a measure of the area density.
पेपर उत्पाद कि let छोटी or no लाइट pass through ( e.g. poster board ) are considered dense or heavy.
Paper products that allow some light to pass through ( e.g. ऊतक पेपर ) are considered lightweight.
In the pulp and paper industry, it is common to set a वाणिज्यिक पेपर यंत्र to उपज पेपर to a निशाना पेपर density.
Paper density can also be used to फर्क पेपर इससे paperboard as the latter प्रायः has a grammage greater than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing पेपर घनत्व are commonly used:
Expressed in grams per square meter ( g/m2 ), पेपर घनत्व is भी ज्ञात as grammage.
This is the माप प्रयुक्त in सबसे parts of the world.
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as वज़न ) प्रति क्रमांक of sheets, it is known as basis weight.
The convention used in the संयुक्त राज्य और a few अन्य देशों using us पेपर आकार is पाउंड of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw, still uncut ) basis size.
Japanese paper is expressed as the वज़न in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19, 1986 ) is an American basketball player for the wnba 's लॉस एंजिल्स स्पार्क्स और ummc ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger सिस्टर of NBA player Anthony Parker.
She attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of Tennessee and was drafted by the Sparks in 2008.
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA टूर्नामेंट खेल और the पहला स्त्री to डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she नियत दोनो माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She also became only the second खिलाड़ी to डंक in a wnba खेल on June 22, 2008.
A versatile player, she is mainly a forward, लकिन थी सूचीबद्ध on टेनेसी 's रोस्टर as a forward, center, and guard.
She was a starter on the Lady Vols basketball team, विजेता of the 2007 और 2008 ncaa championships.
Parker won the 2009 निकलोडियन बच्चे ' चुनाव पुरस्कार as the पसंदीदा मादा athlete in the sports category.
And she was a अतिथि स्टार on Figure It Out.
A food guide pyramid is a पिरामिड तराशा मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake for each food group.
The first food पिरामिड थी प्रकाशित in Sweden in 1974.
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि in the साल 1992, was updated in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
Over 25 other countries and organisations have भी प्रकाशित खाना पिरामिडों.
Hans Christian andersen ( ; प्रायः referred to in scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April 2, 1805August 4, 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet.
Although a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, और कविताएं, andersen is बेहतरीन remembered for his fairy tales, a literary genre he so mastered that he himself has become as mythical as the tales he wrote.
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called, or `` fantastic tales '' —express विषयवस्तु कि transcend आयु and nationality.
During his lifetime he was acclaimed for having delighted children विश्वव्यापी और थी feted by रॉयल्टी.
Andersen 's fairy tales, which have been translated into more than 125 languages, have become culturally embedded in the West 's collective consciousness, readily accessible to children, लकिन पेश lessons of पुण्य और resilience in the फेस of adversity for mature readers as well.
They have inspired motion pictures, plays, नाटिकाओं, और एनिमेटेड films.
दो आंकड़े locking eyes in Caravaggio 's The Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs जब `` दो लोगों look at each other 's eyes at the same time. ''
In इंसान beings, नजर सम्पर्क is a रूप of अशाब्दिक संचार and is thought to have a large influence on social behavior.
Coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s, the term has come in the West to often define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication.
The customs and significance of eye contact vary widely between संस्कृतियों, साथ धार्मिक और सोशल मतभेद प्रायः altering इसके meaning greatly.
The study of eye contact is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
Bed bugs are parasitic कीट of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius, the common bed bug, is the best known as it prefers to feed on human रक्त हालांकि अन्य cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to अन्य पशु, e.g., चमगादड़ बग, C. pipistrelli ( यूरोपीय ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses और विशेषकर आसपास or अंदर of beds और bedding or other sleep areas.
Bed bugs are mainly active at रात्रि, लकिन हैं नहीं exclusively nocturnal.
They usually feed on their hosts बगैर होने noticed.
A number of adverse health effects may result from bed कीड़ा bites, सहित स्किन rashes, मनोवैज्ञानिक effects, and allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both ढूंढना bed बग और the occurrence of संगत symptoms.
Bed bugs have महरूम ज्ञात as इंसान परजीवी for thousands of years.
at a पाइंट in the जल्दी 1940s, वे यहूद mostly eradicated in the developed world, but have increased in prevalence since 1995.
Because infestation of human habitats रै महरूम on the increase, bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, preceding ezekiel, यिर्मयाह और the किताब of the Twelve.
( the अनुक्रम of the subsequent books differs somewhat in the Christian Old Testament ).
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God, while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel और a नई सृष्टि in परमेश्वर 's गौरवशाली भविष्य किंगडम ; इस खण्ड शामिल the गीतों of the कष्ट नौकर, चार separate passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah son of Amoz, but now scholars widely agree that the book is the work of three अलग लेखक - few विद्वानों इनकार इस दृश्य, और those that do, do so for theological reasons.
The first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the कार्य of a 6th-century bce लेखक लिखने निकट the समाप्त of the babylonian captivity ; और the तीसरा, the काव्य Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ), was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile, probably by multiple authors.
Oregon State विश्वविद्यालयों ( osu ) is a coeducational, public research university located in Corvallis, Oregon, United States.
The university offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral डिग्री और a multitude of शोध opportunities.
There are more than 200 academic उपाधि कार्यक्रम offered through the university.
OSU 's कार्यक्रम in सूक्ष्मजैविकी, नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी, पारिस्थितिकी, वानिकी, public health, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs.
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly और the विभाग is माना a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
अधिक than 200,000 लोगों have attended OSU since its founding.
The Carnegie न्यास classifies ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों as part of its top tier of research institutions.
As of 2008, osu is एक of only seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant and sun-grant institution, making it one of only दो us संस्थानों to retain सब चार designations और the तभी पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ).
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon University System, OSU receives more funding for research, annually, than all other पब्लिक उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों in ऑरेगॉन संयुक्त.
Female स्खलन is the expulsion of द्रव by इंसान महिलाओं इससे the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting, हालांकि ये हैं माना to be different phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a टॉपिक of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर, जिससे is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small, air-breathing land snail, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae, the amber snails.
The common name of the amber घोंघे is आधारित on the शेल, जिससे is translucent and when empty usually resembles amber in color.
This प्रजाति is endemic to the संयुक्त States, specifically the state of Arizona and Utah, where it was first collected in the early 20th century.
It has महरूम सूचीबद्ध as endangered on the संयुक्त राज्य मछली and Wildlife Service list of endangered species since 8 August 1991.
This snail lives in वेटलैंड्स, स्रोतों, और seeps, और तभी दो of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes, a meadow near Kanab, Utah, and Vasey 's Paradise, a spring along the Colorado River within Grand Canyon National Park.
In its natural आवास it is बल्कि polyphagous, feeding mainly on bacteria, plants and fungi, and reproduces during the summer.
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors ( including influence ), the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the ऐतिहासिक ऊँची जल स्तर साथ the कोलोराडो नदी.
The स्पेनी भाषा is the दूसरी सबसे used language in the United States.
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there हैं अध्यक्षों of चाइनीज, French, German, Italian, Hawaiian, and the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 अमरीकी जातियाँ सर्वेक्षण conducted by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, स्पेनी is the primary language spoken at home by almost 37 million people aged five or older, a figure more than double that of 1990.
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language, as well as six million Spanish language students, composing the largest national Spanish-speaking जातियाँ बाहर of मैक्सिको और बनाना स्पेनी the रोमांस भाषा और the indo-european भाषा साथ largest क्रमांक of देशी अध्यक्षों in the संसार.
Roughly half of all U.S. स्पेनी अध्यक्षों भी speak English `` very well, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the आगमन of स्पेनी colonists in क्षेत्रों कि होता बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, and California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states-.
Also वेस्ट of louisiana territory थी स्पेनी between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ), after the French and Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century, the Spanish language was later reinforced by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later waves of the हिस्पैनिक करणों, मूलरूप इससे हिस्पैनिक अमेरिका, to the संयुक्त राज्य beginning in the second half of 19th century until today.
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or, in लिखने, `` it थी यूँ in the source material ''.
sic may also refer to:
Sic, Cluj, a कम्यून in रोमानिया
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय कोड for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a कनाडाई रव कलाकार
Sic ( band ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल band from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the initial of मार्को simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
SiC, सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying उद्योग
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स Council
the Swiss interbank clearing प्रणाली
San isidro क्लबों, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee dedicated to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड of आंकडे
second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema Interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति ग्रिड in Chile
Sociedade Independente de comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City, New Jersey, a तटीय कस्बा in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode, a विधि of आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit, a motor रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई, चीन
Simplified निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर, a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern इलिनोइस कॉलेज, a दो साल Junior College in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the परावैद्युत निरंतर
st ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a Jesuit school in Sydney, Australia
alt=Five smiling young लड़कियों in विभिन्न मुद्राएँ wearing श्वेत smocks over thigh-length dresses of similar color to their hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ a डाल of वर्ण designed by Mia Ikumi.
The series takes place in Tokyo, Japan, where five adolescent लड़कियों, पुकारा mew mews, हैं infused साथ the डीएनए of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth.
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series, टोकियो mew mew a la विधि, जिससे introduces a new Mew Mew and a new threat.
The Mew Mews are led by the main character, Ichigo Momomiya, whose first task is to एकत्रित the अन्य चार mew mews : मिंट aizawa, सलाद midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes from having a crush on masaya aoyama to बनने उसके गर्लफ्रेंड जबकि trying to छुपा उसके secret double life from him.
The series antagonists include three aliens, kish, पाई, और तीखा, and their leader, Deep Blue.
originally इससे धरती, the एलियंस यहूद forced to leave long ago due to deadly environmental changes.
They have returned to मार the इंसानो, जो वे महसूस हैं destroying their planet, and reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the छठे mew mew और, in the अनुपस्थिति of Ichigo, the temporary leader of the Mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces नई नियत of antagonists, the संत रोज़ crusaders, a group of human teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make several attempts to kill बेरी, आखिरकार turning the लोकल populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a स्टोरी पुकारा टोकियो ब्लैक बिल्ली लड़की कि featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat story of five female superheroes, the character डिजाइन यहूद redone to have a हल्का, अधिक रंगीन महसूस.
The main series characters were praised लिये होने a पूर्ण अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी, as well as for their cute appearances.
The characters introduced in a la विधि यहूद भी praised लिये उनके विज़ुअल appearances, but criticized as being repeats of the original series.
The character Duke was also criticized लिये having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the white supremacy group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( नीचे ) और limestones ( ऊपर ), वर्जिन Formation, southwestern Utah, USA
Sedimentary rocks are प्रकार of चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition of सामग्री at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle और accumulate or खनिज to precipitate इससे a समाधान.
Particles that form a sedimentary चट्टान by accumulating are called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source क्षेत्रफल, और तब transported to the प्लेस of deposition by जल, हवा, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
The sedimentary चट्टान कवर of the महाद्वीपों of the धरती 's क्रस्ट is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust.
sedimentary रॉक्स हैं तभी a पतला veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are deposited in परतों as strata, forming a ढांचा पुकारा bedding.
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface कि is उपयोगी लिये सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी, लिये उदाहरण in the निर्माण of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural संसाधन जैसे कोयले, चट्टान fuels, drinking water or ores.
the पढ़ाई of the अनुक्रम of sedimentary rock strata is the main source for scientific knowledge about the Earth 's history, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
The scientific अनुशासन कि अध्ययन the गुण और उत्पत्ति of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology.
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the धरती sciences, ऐसे as pedology, geomorphology, भूरसायन or structural geology.
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones, some of जिससे फ्यूज साथ into a अनुदैर्ध्य अक्ष, the अक्षीय कंकाल, to जिससे the appendicular skeleton is attached.
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 March c. 460 or c. 492 ) was a romano-british ईसाई मिशनरी और बिशप in आयरलैंड.
Known as the `` Apostle of आयरलैंड '', he is the प्राथमिक संरक्षक संत of the island along with Saints Brigid and Columba.
Two authentic letters from उसे जीवित, इससे जिससे आइये the तभी generally स्वीकृत details of his life.
When he was about 16, he was captured इससे उसके घर और लिया as a slave to Ireland, where he lived for six years before escaping and returning to his family.
After becoming a cleric, he returned to northern and western Ireland as an ordained बिशप, लकिन छोटी is ज्ञात परिचय the places where he worked.
By the seventh सदी, he था already आइये to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
सबसे उपलब्धियाँ विवरण of his life are from subsequent hagiographies, and these are now not accepted without detailed criticism.
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432, ministered in ulster around 443, and died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( विचार to औसत palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the Scots, '' who died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but, on a widespread interpretation, he was active as a missionary in आयरलैंड दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the 5th सदी.
He is generally credited साथ होने the first bishop of Armagh, Primate of All Ireland.
Saint Patrick 's Day is observed on March 17, the तिथि of उसके मौत.
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland, as both a religious and, especially outside आयरलैंड, धर्मनिरपेक्ष holiday.
In the dioceses of Ireland, it is दोनो a solemnity और a पावन दिन of दायित्व ; outside Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
लकीर खण्ड in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b, when placed adjacent to a square with sides of लंबाई a, होगा उपज a समान सुनहरी आयताकार साथ longer पक्ष a + b और shorter side a.
This illustrates the संबंध.
In mathematics and the arts, two quantities are in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger मात्रा is बराबर to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one.
The figure on the सही illustrates the ज्यामितीय relationship.
expressed algebraically:
जहाँ the यूनानी अक्षर phi ( ) represents the golden ratio.
इसके मान is:
The golden अनुपात is भी पुकारा the सुनहरी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio aurea ) or golden mean.
Other names include extreme and mean ratio, medial section, divine proportion, दैवी खण्ड ( Latin : sectio divina ), golden proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to approximate the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the रूप of the सुनहरी आयताकार, in जिससे the अनुपात of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the सुनहरी अनुपात, सहित इसके रूप in the आयाम of a नियमित प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार, जिससे can be cut into a square and a smaller rectangle with the same aspect ratio.
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as खूब as man-made प्रणालियों ऐसे as वित्तीय बाज़ार, in कुछ मामले आधारित on dubious fits to data.
North Myrtle बीच is a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट नगर in Horry County, South Carolina, United States.
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities उत्तर of myrtle बीच, और serves as एक of the primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand.
The population was 13,752 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the World युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली किया नहीं डालें into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers यहूद at युद्ध और, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम and Luxembourg on the way to France, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In नवम्बर the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, opening up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया गई to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in victory for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, जबकि the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Camden is a city in camden काउंटी, नई जर्सी, United States.
It is the county seat, स्तिथ आरपार the Delaware River from Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had a total जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344, representing a मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) इससे the 79,904 निवासियों enumerated दौरान the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, जिससे था in फेरे declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous नगरपालिका in the राज्य in 2010 बाद having been ranked 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13, 1828, from portions of the now-defunct न्यूटन township, जबकि the क्षेत्रफल was still part of Gloucester County.
On March 13, 1844, Camden became भाग of the newly formed Camden County.
Although once a thriving center for manufacturing and industry, camden is शायद बेहतरीन known for its struggles with urban dysfunction.
Three Camden mayors have महरूम jailed for corruption, the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000.
Since 2005 the school system and police department have been संचालित by the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा समाप्त in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime रेट in the u.S. साथ 2,333 हिंसक अपराधों per 100,000 people while the national average was 455 per 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per छात्र ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil आधार ) in the 2009–10 स्कूल year and two-thirds of the students graduate.
Two out of every five निवासियों हैं नीचे the national poverty line.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, saroten, Sarotex, Lentizol, Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त tca और रै at तनिक बराबर efficacy विरूद्ध अवसाद as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001.
As well as reducing depressive symptoms, ये प्रकार of tricyclics also ease migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
It is also known to reduce आक्रामकता और violent behavior.
A computer is a सामान्य purpose यंत्र कि can be प्रोग्रामित to carry out a finite set of arithmetic or logical operations.
चूंकि a अनुक्रम of परिचालन can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than one kind of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at least one प्रसंस्करण तत्व, typically a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The processing element carries out arithmetic and logic operations, and a sequencing and कंट्रोल ईकाई कि can बदलें the अनुक्रम of परिचालन आधारित on stored information.
Peripheral devices allow सूचना to be पुनर्प्राप्त इससे an बाह्य सोर्स, और the परिणाम of operations saved and retrieved.
the पहला इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिजिटल कंप्यूटर यहूद विकसित between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States.
Originally they were the size of a large room, consuming as much power as अनेक सौ आधुनिक निजी कंप्यूटर ( PCs ).
in इस era mechanical एनालॉग computers were used for military applications.
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to अरबों of टाइम्स अधिक सक्षम than the जल्दी मशीने, और occupy a भिन्न of the space.
Simple computers are small enough to fit into मोबाईल डिवाइस, और मोबाईल कंप्यूटर can be powered by small batteries.
Personal computers in their विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म हैं प्रतीक of the सूचना आयु और हैं what most people think of as “computers.”
However, the embedded computers found in many devices from MP3 खिलाड़ी to सेनानी वायुयान और इससे खिलौने to औद्योगिक robots हैं the most numerous.
`` Barefoot और गर्भवती '' is a phrase सबसे commonly संबद्ध साथ the controversial idea that women should not work outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years.
It has several other meanings as well.
It is a फिगर of वाक.
The phrase `` barefoot और गर्भवती '' was probably first used sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 states, `` By early 1949, TWA was—in the words of its new अध्यक्ष, ralph S. damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its उपयोग may तिथि as early as the 1910s.
An article प्रकाशित in 1958 राज्य the phrase was first used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier.
`` Some forty years ago, dr. hertzler उन्नत a परिकल्पना जिससे यंग women of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a स्त्री प्रसन्न, ' he कहा, 'is to रखना उसके barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated प्लेस और unincorporated जातियाँ भीतर Ocean Township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी, the CDP 's population was 3,995.
University of Phoenix Stadium, opened August 1, 2006, is a बहुउद्देशीय फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम स्तिथ in ग्लेनडेल, Arizona.
It is the घर of the एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is स्तिथ अगला द्वार to the jobing.com एरिना और it सुविधाएँ the पहला fully retractable natural grass playing surface built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system.
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing फ़ील्ड to मूव to the exterior of the भवन, allowing the संपूर्ण natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight.
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII, and the 2011 BCS नेशनल चैंपियनशिप खेल, a खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक चार सालो, जिससे नियत the स्थान 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It will again host सुपर कटोरी xlix in 2015.
The University of Phoenix acquired the नामकरण अधिकारों in सितंबर 2006, shortly after the stadium had opened under the name Cardinals Stadium.
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is applied as a corporate sponsor, और नहीं as the घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( which has no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The stadium has also hosted the WWE event WrestleMania xxvi साथ 72,219 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति.
The event was held in the stadium on कूच 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as लॉरेंस जोशुआ चेम्बरलेन, थी an अमरीकी कॉलेज प्राध्यापक इससे the राज्य of Maine, who volunteered during the American Civil War to join the Union Army.
Although having no earlier शिक्षा in सैन्य रणनीति, he became a अत्यधिक आदरणीय और decorated Union officer, reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and brevet major general ).
For his gallantry at gettysburg, he थी awarded the Medal of Honor.
He was given the honor of commanding the संघ सैनिकों at the आत्मसमर्पण ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he डाला राजनीती as a रिपब्लिकन and served four one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine.
He served on the faculty, and as अध्यक्ष, of उसके अल्मा मेटर, Bowdoin College.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल in कोई of a किस्में of खेल – most notably cricket and baseball during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from scoring.
In cricket, the पद पारी is दोनो एकवचन और बहुवचन और is सदा spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s ''.
In baseball and सॉफ्टबॉल, the एकवचन रूप is inning और तभी the plural takes an `` s ''.
In many other sports, the length of the खेल is लिखवाई by a क्लॉक और टीमों स्वैप offensive and defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item.
In baseball and cricket, however, one team, said to be `` batting '', attempts to score `` runs '' —see run ( baseball ) और चलाएं ( क्रिकेट ) —while the अन्य टोली, कहा to be `` क्षेत्ररक्षण '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out.
The teams स्विच स्थान बाद the क्षेत्ररक्षण टोली has succeeded in getting a fixed number of players out, making a clock unnecessary.
In cricket, the term innings is also used to refer to the खेल of एक particular खिलाड़ी ( स्मिथ had a poor innings, scoring only 12 ).
By extension, this term can be प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी लिये लगभग कोई कार्यकलाप जिससे takes a काल of time ( The Liberal government had a good innings, but finally lost office in 1972, or You 've had a fair innings, now it 's my turn, meaning `` you have spoken for long enough, now let me speak '' ).
It is also used in reference to someone who has died at a reasonably बूढ़ा आयु or जिया a समृद्ध और rewarding life ( Ah, well.
जॉन थी 89.
At least he had a शुभ पारी ).
The baseball-derived समानांतर to इस in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी is the term at bat.
according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष, the term innings has been used in reference to cricket since at least 1735.
As cricket was a mature, highly organized sport in the 1600s in इंग्लैण्ड, the पद 's उत्पत्ति could खूब precede इस first recorded usage.
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in ' is first recorded in 1522, और could be सम्बन्धित.
Adenosine deaminase deficiency, also called ADA deficiency or ADA-SCID, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in कम than one in 100,000 live births worldwide.
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases of severe संयुक्त immunodeficiency ( scid ).
It is बहुत विरल, तुम have a 3 % chance of getting this gene.
ADA deficiency may be present in शैशव, बाल्यकाल, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and severity is related to some 29 ज्ञात genotypes संबद्ध with the disorder.
An उदाहरण of शहरी गरीबी in this slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one who lacks a certain amount of material possessions or धन.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the पिछडे of मौलिक इंसान needs, जिससे commonly शामिल खाना, जल, स्वच्छता, clothing, shelter, health care and education.
Relative poverty is defined contextually as आर्थिक असमानता in the स्थान or society in which people live.
For much of history, poverty was considered largely unavoidable as परंपरागत मोड्स of उत्पादन यहूद अपर्याप्त to दे an संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी a आरामदायक standard of living.
After the industrial revolution, mass उत्पादन in कारखानों बना माल increasingly more inexpensive and accessible.
Of अधिक महत्व is the modernization of agriculture, such as fertilizers, in order to provide enough yield to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on government services such as corruption, कर avoidance, कर्ज़ और ऋण conditionalities और by the दिमाग नाली of स्वास्थ्य परवाह और educational professionals.
रणनीति of increasing आय to मेक मौलिक needs अधिक affordable typically include welfare, economic freedoms, and providing financial services.
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many international संगठन ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और the World Bank.
The संसार बैंको अनुमानित 1.29 अरब people were living in absolute poverty in 2008.
Of these, about 400 million people in absolute गरीबी जिया in इण्डिया और 173 लाख people in China.
In USA 1 in 5 children lives in poverty.
In terms of percentage of regional populations, sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी at 47 % था the उच्चतम incidence रेट of absolute poverty in 2008.
Between 1990 and 2010, about 663 million people moved above the निरपेक्ष गरीबी स्तर.
Still, extreme poverty is a वैश्विक चुनौती ; it is observed in सब भाग of the world, including the developed economies.
मशरूम विषाक्तता ( भी ज्ञात as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह effects from ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom.
ये लक्षण can vary इससे slight gastrointestinal discomfort to death.
The toxins present are secondary metabolites उत्पादित in विशिष्ट biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
Mushroom विषाक्तता is प्रायः the परिणाम of ingestion of जंगली mushrooms after misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species.
The सबसे आम कारण लिये इस misidentification is close resemblance in terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species.
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare occasion poisoned by खाने विषाक्त प्रजाति, despite होने खूब जागरूक of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with the mushrooms they intend to collect as खूब as साथ कोई similar-looking विषाक्त प्रजाति.
In addition, edibility of mushrooms may depend on methods of तैयारी लिये कुकिंग.
Collectors also need to be well aware that edibility or toxicity of कुछ प्रजाति varies with geographic location.
Human height is the distance from the bottom of the फीट to the शीर्ष of the सिर in a इंसान देह, खड़ा वीर्यपात.
When populations share जेनेटिक background and environmental factors, average height is frequently characteristic within the group.
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) भीतर ऐसे a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, पर्यावरणीय कारकों जैसे दीर्घकालिक कुपोषण दौरान बाल्यकाल or adolescence may account for delayed growth and/or ( in severe cases ) marked reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans, Americans neil आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन, on the चंद्रमा on जुलाई 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the first to कदम onto the चंद्र surface 6 hours later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Armstrong spent about two and a half hours बाहर the spacecraft, एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; और साथ वे एकत्रित of चंद्र सामग्री for return to Earth.
A third member of the mission, Michael Collins, piloted the कमांड spacecraft अलोन in चंद्र कक्षा जबतक आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन returned to it just under a day later for the trip back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Merritt Island, Florida on July 16, Apollo 11 थी the पांचवां मानवयुक्त मिशन of NASA 's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the तभी भाग जिससे उतरा वापस on धरती ; a सेवा मोड्यूल जिससे समर्थित the कमांड मोड्यूल साथ नोदन, electrical power, oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon.
After being sent to the चंद्रमा by the शनि v 's अपर स्टेज, the astronauts अलग the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into the Lunar Module और उतरा in the समुद्र of tranquility.
वे ठहरे a कुल of परिचय 21 and a half hours on the lunar surface.
After lifting off in the upper part of the चंद्र मोड्यूल और rejoining कॉलिन्स in the कमांड मोड्यूल, वे लौटे to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, Armstrong stepped onto the चंद्र सतह और वर्णित the इवेंट as `` एक छोटी कदम for [ a ] man, one giant leap for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a national goal proposed in 1961 by the late U.S. President John F. कैनेडी in a वाक पहले the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस, `` पहले इस दशक is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the संसार कप, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the दूसरी संसार War.
The current champions हैं स्पेन, जो जीती the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by आठ अलग नेशनल teams.
Brazil have जीती पाँच टाइम्स, और वे हैं the only team to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, और स्पेन, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The अगला तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in भाग, of an जातीय, जातिगत, धार्मिक, or national group.
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the रोकथाम और दंड of the अपराधों of नरसंहार ( cppcg ) of 1948 as `` कोई of the following अधिनियमों वचनबद्ध साथ intent to नष्ट, in पूरे or in भाग, a नेशनल, ethnical, जातिगत or धार्मिक समूह, as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of life, calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
Skulls of पीड़ितों of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not तभी राज्य कि `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों अंतर्गत अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, contrary to the spirit and aims of the United Nations and condemned by the civilized world '', but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
Determining what historical events constitute a नरसंहार और जिससे हैं merely दण्ड or अमानवीय behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
In nearly every case जहाँ आरोपों of नरसंहार have परिचालित, partisans of विभिन्न पहलू have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event, often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
An accusation of नरसंहार is कतई नहीं taken lightly and will almost always be controversial.
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides should be understood in this context and can नहीं be regarded as the फाइनल शब्द on ये विषय.
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical ड्राइव बेल्ट और the पद may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a लचीली बेल्ट साथ दांत moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed belt used to drive the camshaft ( s ) भीतर an आतंरिक दहन इंजन
The culture of the संयुक्त राज्य is primarily a पश्चिमी संस्कृति, लकिन is भी बहकावे by Native American, African, Asian, Polynesian, and Latin American cultures.
American culture started its formation over 10,000 years पहले साथ the माइग्रेशन of paleo-indians इससे एशिया into the region that is today the continental United States.
It has its own unique social और सांस्कृतिक विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore.
The United States of America is an ethnically और racially विविध देश as a परिणाम of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its history.
Its chief जल्दी यूरोपीय प्रभाव आए इससे अंग्रेज़ी, स्कॉटिश, Welsh and Irish settlers of colonial America during British rule.
British culture, due to colonial ties with Britain that स्प्रेड the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा, विधिक प्रणाली and other cultural inheritances, had a formative influence.
Other important प्रभाव आए इससे अन्य भाग of western Europe, especially Germany, France, and Italy.
Original तत्व भी खेल a दमदार भूमिका, such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the राज्य of वर्जिनिया थी शायद the पहला influential घरेलू cultural critique by an American and a reactionary piece to the prevailing European consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate.
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically, such as national holidays, uniquely American खेल, सैन्य परंपरा, और नवप्रवर्तनों in the कला और entertainment give a strong sense of national pride among the population as a whole.
American culture includes both conservative and liberal elements, scientific and religious competitiveness, political structures, risk taking and free expression, भौतिकवादी और moral तत्व.
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g. individualism, egalitarianism, and faith in freedom and लोकतंत्र ), अमरीकी संस्कृति रै a किस्में of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक स्केल और जनसांख्यिकी diversity.
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति as a mythic पहचान ; अन्य देखिए it as American exceptionalism.
It also शामिल तत्व कि विकसित इससे स्वदेशी अमेरिकी, और अन्य ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from Latin America, and Asian American cultures.
Many American cultural elements, especially from लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, have स्प्रेड आरपार the ग्लोब through modern mass media.
The United States has often been thought of as a melting pot, but beginning in the late 1990s और जल्दी 2000s, it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता, बहुलवाद and the image of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, there are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the संयुक्त राज्य.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, राजनैतिक अभिविन्यास और a multitude of जनसांख्यिकी विशेषताएँ such as religious background, occupation and ethnic group membership.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands, comprising the independent देश of समोआ और the संयुक्त राज्य territory of अमरीकी Samoa.
It is an official language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी —in दोनो jurisdictions.
samoan, a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा, is the पहला भाषा for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000.
With many Samoan people living in other countries, the कुल क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों विश्वव्यापी is अनुमानित at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological differences between formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial रूप प्रयुक्त in samoan छाये.
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine कैसा जल्दी it is साफ इससे the रक्त.
The test is usually used to test for diabetes, insulin resistance, and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia और acromegaly, or rarer विकार of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the test, an oral glucose सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ), a मानक खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by mouth and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes, with different standard doses of glucose, अलग रूट of प्रशासन, अलग intervals और durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` What About Me '' is a song लिखा by गैरी तुषार और frances Swan, first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top ; वहीँ, it थी the second-highest selling single of 1982.
The success of the song led them to America जहाँ it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 chart.
The सोंग ठहरे in the u.S. चार्ट लिये ऐसे a long समय कि it प्रबंधित to make Billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983, at # 88, a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position.
The song made an असामान्य वापसी in 1989, peaking at # 46.
On the left a chicken egg, the egg most commonly खाया by इंसानो, और on the right two quail eggs
Eggs हैं रखी by महिलाओं of अनेक अलग प्रजाति, including birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish, and have been eaten by mankind for thousands of years.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell, albumen ( egg white ), and vitellus ( egg yolk ), contained भीतर विभिन्न पतला membranes.
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken, duck, quail, roe, and caviar, but the अंडा सबसे प्रायः खपत by इंसानो is the chicken egg, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks and whole eggs store significant amounts of प्रोटीन और choline, और are widely used in cookery.
Due to their protein content, the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) categorizes अंडे as meats भीतर the Food Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional value of eggs, there are some संभावित स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे arising इससे egg quality, storage, and individual allergies.
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the संसार, और द्रव्यमान production of chicken eggs is a global industry.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 लाख मीट्रिक टन of अंडे यहूद उत्पादित विश्वव्यापी from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation, as well as current debates concerning विधि of द्रव्यमान उत्पादन, साथ the यूरोपीय Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens.
Major लीग सॉकर ( mls ) is a पेशेवर soccer league representing the sport 's highest level in the United States and Canada.
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S. Soccer ), the league is रचित of 19 टीमों — 16 in the u.S. और 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently चलाएं इससे कूच to दिसम्बर, साथ प्रत्येक टोली playing 34 games in the regular season.
Ten टीमों compete in the postseason mls कप Playoffs culminating in the championship game, the MLS Cup.
Major League Soccer was founded in 1993 as part of the संयुक्त राज्य ' बोली to मेजबान the 1994 फीफा संसार कप.
The first season took प्लेस in 1996 beginning with ten teams.
Instead of ऑपरेटिंग as an संघ of independently owned teams, MLS is a single entity where each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors.
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the world 's few सॉकर लीग नहीं using प्रमोशन और relegation.
The legality of कैनबिस varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस prohibition in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North कोरियाई और होता be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं for federal law, which governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of cannabis is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों, including Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that हैं नहीं as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन, अलावा इससे the देशों कि offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation, use, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, बनाना it दंडनीय by confiscation और a fine, rather than imprisonment.
कुछ क्षेत्राधिकारs/ ड्रग न्यायालयों उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये young or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also परिवर्तन in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have resulted in कारावास sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries, विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट एशिया और southeast एशिया जहाँ the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the आयतनी fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट कि allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
सरलीकृत, ejection भिन्न is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a गणितीय पद, ejection भिन्न is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, largely in the Mojave Desert.
The southern portion of the राजमार्ग is हस्ताक्षरित as the Antelope Valley Freeway.
The route connects Interstate 5, or सुनहरी राज्य फ्रीवे, निकट सांता clarita और साथ u.S. रूट 395 near Inyokern.
Legislatively, the route extends south of I-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades क्षेत्रफल of लॉस एंजिल्स, however the portion दक्षिण of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed रूट is a व्यस्त commuter फ्रीवे सेवारत और connecting the समुदायों of Santa Clarita, Palmdale and Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
The northern portion, from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395, is legislatively नामित the aerospace राजमार्ग, as the राजमार्ग serves एडवर्ड्स एयर फ़ोर्स Base, once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle.
This section is ग्रामीण, following the लकीर between the hot mojave मरुस्थल and the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a प्रमुख लकीर of the दक्षिणी प्रशांत रेलरोड, used for the Antelope Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass.
Linked with US 395, this सड़क connects लॉस एंजिल्स साथ ऐसे स्थान as मैमथ पहाड़, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964, जब u.S. 6 थी a coast-to-coast रूट इससे long बीच to provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road north of Rosamond to Mojave is ज्ञात as सिएरा राजमार्ग, as is the बूढ़ा रूटिंग between अंतरराज्यीय 5 और चांदी महारानी सड़क जहाँ SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated साथ us 6, सहित मिडलैंड ट्रेल, थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट राजमार्ग और ग्रैंड Army of the Republic Highway.
This route is part of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया फ्रीवे और एक्सप्रेसवे प्रणाली.
Blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors.
Various तराजू have महरूम विकसित to describe the extent of vision loss and define blindness.
Total blindness is the complete lack of form and visual light perception और is clinically अंकित as nlp, an संक्षिप्त for `` no light perception. ''
Blindness is frequently used to describe severe विज़ुअल पुतलियों साथ vision.
Those described as having तभी लाइट बोध have no अधिक sight than the क्षमता to बताना light from dark and the general direction of a light source.
To determine which people may need special assistance because of their visual disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित अधिक जटिल परिभाषाएं referred to as विधिक दृष्टिहीनता.
In North अमेरिका और सबसे of यूरोपीय, विधिक दृष्टिहीनता is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible.
This means that a legally blind व्यक्तिगत होता have to स्टैंड इससे an ऑब्जेक्ट to see it—with corrective lenses —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from.
In many areas, people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of less than 20 डिग्री ( the norm होने 180 डिग्री ) हैं भी वर्गीकृत as being legally blind.
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally blind, by any measure, have no vision.
The rest have some vision, इससे लाइट बोध alone to relatively good acuity.
Low vision is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe विज़ुअल acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), but equal to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 20 डिग्री, in the बेहतर नजर साथ बेहतरीन संभावित सुधार.
Blindness is defined as visual तीक्ष्णता of कम than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or corresponding visual field loss to less than 10 degrees, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually लिये the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are नहीं प्रभावित by ऑप्टिक तंत्रिका क्षति परे जहाँ the retinohypothalamic tract exits.
Earl Simmons ( born दिसम्बर 18, 1970 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज names DMX and Dark Man X, is an American rapper and actor.
In 1999, DMX released उसके best-selling एल्बम... और Then There Was X, which featured the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films such as Belly, रोमियो जरूर die, निकास wounds, Cradle 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
In 2006, he स्ट्रक्चर in the वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, which was primarily aired on the BET cable television network.
in 2003, dmx प्रकाशित a किताब of his memoirs entitled, E.A.R.L. : The Autobiography of DMX.
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards उसके एल्बम undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX has sold over 30 million records worldwide, बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time.
Professional certification, व्यापार प्रमाणन, or पेशेवर नामांकन, प्रायः पुकारा बस प्रमाणन or qualification, is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task.
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an स्वीकृति of शैक्षणिक उपलब्धि, or an एजेंसी नियुक्त to safeguard the public interest.
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character, best remembered लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ in the looney धुनें और merrie melodies श्रेणी of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by Warner Bros. during the Golden age of American animation.
His popularity during this era led to his becoming a कॉरपोरेट शुभंकर of warner भाईs. entertainment.
बग is an anthropomorphic धूसर हरे or खरगोश who is famous for his flippant, personality, a pronounced New York accent, his portrayal as a trickster, and his catch phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, दस्तावेज़ ? ''
( usually said while chewing a गाजर ).
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon character and is the ninth सबसे portrayed फिल्मी व्यक्तित्व in the world.
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only एक धूसर हरे, बग थी born on जुलाई 27, 1940 in ब्रुकलीन, नई यॉर्क in a warren under Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
In reality, he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery, who directed Bugs ' जल्दी निर्णायक छोटी a जंगली हरे ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट mckimson, जो निर्मित बग ' निर्णायक अक्षर डिज़ाइन ; और mel blanc, जो originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal उत्पत्ति, covered in epithelium, जिससे हैं शामिल in अवशोषण and secretion.
They line cavities that are exposed to the बाह्य पर्यावरण और आतंरिक organs.
वे हैं at अनेक स्थान संलग्न साथ स्किन : at the नथुनों, the lips of the mouth, the eyelids, the ears, the genital area, and the anus.
The sticky, मोटा द्रव स्रावित by the mucous membranes and glands is termed mucus.
The term श्लेष्मक झिल्ली refers to जहाँ they are found in the body and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans penis ( सिर of the शिश्न ), साथ साथ the अंदर of the अग्रत्वचा and the clitoral hood, are mucous membranes.
The urethra is भी a mucous membrane.
The स्रावित mucus फंदा the pathogens in the body, preventing any further activities of diseases.
A master sergeant is the military rank लिये a वरिष्ठ non-commissioned अधिकारी in कुछ हथियारबंद forces.
Cake is a रूप of ब्रैड or bread-like food.
In इसके आधुनिक फ़ॉर्म, it is typically a sweet baked dessert.
In its oldest forms, cakes were normally fried breads or cheesecakes, और सामान्यतः था a disk shape.
Determining whether a given food should be वर्गीकृत as ब्रैड, केक, or पेस्ट्री can be difficult.
Modern cake, especially परत cakes, सामान्यतः contain a संयोजन of आटा, शुगर, अंडे, और butter or oil, with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, सूखी or candied फल, or extracts are often added, and numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients are possible.
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or मिठाई sauces ( जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ), आइस्ड with buttercream or other icings, and decorated with marzipan, piped borders or candied fruit.
केक is प्रायः the मिठाई of चुनाव लिये meals at ceremonial occasions, particularly weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays.
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like, some rich and विस्तृत, और अनेक हैं सदियां बूढ़ा.
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), बेकिंग उपकरण और दिशानिर्देश have महरूम सरलीकृत so कि भी the most amateur cook may bake a cake.
Tamara Faye lavalley bakker messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an American Christian singer, evangelist, entrepreneur, author, talk show host, and television personality.
She was married from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, और बाद convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
She co-hosted साथ उसे on the PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ).
She थी a भागीदार in the 2004 season of the reality show The Surreal Life.
Cambria is a गाँव in कोलंबिया County, Wisconsin, United States.
The population थी 767 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the Madison महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
Public policy is the principled guide to action taken by the प्रशासनिक कार्यपालिका शाखाओं of the राज्य साथ regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs.
In general, the foundation is the pertinent नेशनल और substantial संवैधानिक विधि और implementing legislation such as the US Federal code.
Further substrates include both न्यायिक interpretations और regulations which are generally authorized by legislation.
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action, नियामक उपायों, कानून, और funding प्राथमिकताएं concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated by a सरकारी entity or its representatives. ''
Public policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions, विधान अधिनियमों, और न्यायिक निर्णय. ''
In the United राज्य, इस अवधारणा refers नहीं तभी to the परिणाम of नीतियों, but more broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions.
As an academic discipline, public policy is पढ़ाई by professors और विद्यार्थी at पब्लिक नीति स्कूलों of major universities throughout the country.
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners, researchers, scholars, and विद्यार्थी is the संघ लिये पब्लिक नीति विश्लेषण और प्रबन्धन.
Digestion is the mechanical और रासायनिक विश्लेषण of खाना into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream, for instance.
Digestion is a रूप of catabolism : a विश्लेषण of large food molecules to smaller ones.
When food enters the mouth, digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication, a form of mechanical पाचन, and the wetting contact of saliva.
Saliva, a liquid secreted by the salivary glands, contains salivary amylase, an एंजाइम जिससे starts the digestion of starch in the food.
After undergoing mastication and starch digestion, the food will be in the form of a छोटी, गोलाकार slurry द्रव्यमान called a bolus.
it होगा तब सफर down the esophagus and into the stomach by the action of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the पेट starts प्रोटीन digestion.
Gastric juice मुख्यतः contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid and pepsin.
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus is secreted by the पेट, providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals.
At the वही समय प्रोटीन पाचन is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall.
This allows the mass of खाना to further mix with the digestive enzymes.
After some time ( typically an घंटा or दो in इंसानो, 4–6 घंटों in कुत्तो, somewhat shorter duration in house cats ), the resulting thick liquid is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum जहाँ it mixes साथ digestive enzymes from the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully पचता, it is absorbed into the blood.
95 % of अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in the small intestine.
जल और खनिज हैं reabsorbed वापस into the blood in the colon ( large intestine ) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
कुछ विटामिन, ऐसे as biotin और vitamin K ( K2MK7 ) produced by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon.
Waste material is eliminated इससे the मलाशय दौरान शौच.
Henry VIII ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death.
He was lord, and बाद किंग, of आयरलैंड, as खूब as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry viii is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of England from the Roman Catholic Church.
हेनरी 's struggles साथ रोम led to the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं, भी बाद उसके excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, maximillian i, और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल, well-equipped फौज, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये हेनरी, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman Emperor, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to और इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an आकर्षक, शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग, और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he भी सगाई खुद as an लेखक और composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led to the दो things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण मोटे और उसके health suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is अक्सर characterised in his later life as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an afro-cuban percussion यंत्र.
The drums are of अलग आकार : the larger ढोल is पुकारा in Spanish the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ).
They are membranophones, or instruments that create sound by a स्पंदन of a stretched झिल्ली.
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons, in varying आदेश, और sometimes divide or combine किताबे, or चरितार्थ अतिरिक्त material into canonical books.
Christian Bibles range इससे the sixty-six किताबे of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four books विभाजित into three parts ; the five books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ), the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ), and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ).
the पहला भाग of ईसाई bibles is the बूढ़ा वसीयत, जिससे contains, at minimum, the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine books and ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible.
The Catholic गिरिजाघर और पूर्वी Christian churches also hold certain deuterocanonical books and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon.
The second part is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven किताबे ; the चार canonical gospels, Acts of the Apostles, twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation.
The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in their सूचियाँ of accepted books.
The list given here for these churches is the most inclusive : if at least one पूर्वी गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the किताब it is शामिल यहाँ.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white, with a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और became the first states in the Union.
nicknames लिये the ध्वज शामिल the `` Stars and Stripes '', `` Old Glory ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford,, also ज्ञात as the dred स्कॉट निर्णय, थी a लैंडमार्क निर्णय by the U.S. Supreme Court.
It made two main rulings.
The first सत्ताधारी थी कि african-americans यहूद नहीं citizens, and therefore had no standing to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power to विनियमित गुलामी in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States.
Given the first ruling, most scholars and many contemporary राजनैतिक आंकड़े ( सहित the नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ) माना कि the दूसरी सत्ताधारी was not binding precedent, but mere dictum.
The rationale of the परम् अदालत regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied that people of African descent ( both slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. संविधान, दोनो rulings हैं superseded और no longer valid precedent.
Nonetheless, the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst निर्णय कभी made by the Supreme Court.
the राय of the अदालत, written by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney, stirred debate.
The निर्णय थी 7–2, और प्रत्येक इंसाफ besides taney लिखा a separate concurrence or dissent.
For the first time since Marbury v. Madison, the Court आयोजित an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस to be unconstitutional.
Dred Scott, an African-American slave, had asked a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because he and his master था resided in a राज्य ( इलिनोइस ) और a territory ( विस्कॉन्सिन territory ) where slavery had been banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, writing for the court, held that Scott, as a person of African ancestry, थी नहीं a नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य और इसलिए था no सही to मुकदमा in संघीय court.
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time, particularly Free states, where फ़्री अश्वेतों किया in फैक्ट आनंद the अधिकारों of नागरिकों, ऐसे as the सही to vote और थाम public office.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court went on to थाम कि कॉंग्रेस था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories क्युकी स्लेव हैं निजी प्रॉपर्टी और the पांचवां amendment to the संविधान protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law.
In reaching this decision, Taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन it था the opposite effect.
The decision was fiercely debated आरपार the देश, as perhaps best exemplified by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever Republican nominee for President, was able to जीत the अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank.
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession और the सिविल युद्ध, हालांकि it is चरम to say the decision `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is credited साथ शुभारंभ अब्राहम lincoln’s नेशनल राजनैतिक करियर और ultimately allowing लिये उसके चुनाव.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the अदालत stated in the slaughter-house मामले कि at तनिक एक भाग of it था already महरूम overruled by the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868, which begins by stating, `` All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To which the अदालत noted:
The first अवलोकन we have to मेक on इस clause is, कि it puts at बाकी दोनो the questions which we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion.
It declares that persons may be नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य बगैर लिहाज़ to उनके citizenship of a particular State, and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all persons born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States.
वहीँ हैं दर्जनों of पड़ोस in Columbus, Ohio.
Some are hard to define, as they encompass large areas developed at different times—often साथ sub-neighborhoods भीतर उन्हें.
Borders can also change based on popular समझना of the क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the whims of the residents.
This article uses data इससे the datasourcecolumbus वेब साईट, spotcrime.com, hellocolumbus.com, as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas.
Excerpts and border information are drawn directly इससे the प्रमुख articles.
A biologist is a scientist who studies जीना जीवों और उनके संबंध to their environment.
Biologists involved in मौलिक शोध attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work.
Biologists involved in applied शोध attempt to develop or improve medical, industrial or agricultural processes.
Martinus Willem Beijerinck, a वनस्पतिशास्त्री और microbiologist
Base jumping from a चट्टान in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.S.E. jumping, is an activity जहाँ भागीदार जम्प इससे फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ और उपयोग a पैराशूट to break their fall.
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four categories of फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : इमारतें, एन्टेना, spans ( bridges ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The British Shorthair is a domesticated बिल्ली जिनकी सुविधाएँ मेक it a popular breed in cat shows.
It has been the most popular नस्ल of बिल्ली पंजीकृत by the uk 's शासी परिषद of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001, when it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA बास्केट मेन 's वरिष्ठ नेशनल टोली, commonly ज्ञात as the United States men 's national basketball team, represents the United States of America in international men 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful team in international competition, winning medals in सब सत्रह ओलम्पिक tournaments it रै entered, coming away with fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team, which featured six Hall of Famers ( 4 players, 2 कोच ), और the 1992 `` सपना टोली '', featuring 14 हॉल of famers ( 11 खिलाड़ी, 3 कोच ).
The United States is currently क्रमित पहला in the fiba संसार Rankings.
Traditionally composed of amateur खिलाड़ी, a 1989 नियम बदलें by fiba अनुमत यूएसए बास्केट to फ़ील्ड teams with professional players.
The first such team, known as the `` सपना टोली '', जीती the सुनहरा medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the introduction of पेशेवर, the टोली थी समर्थ to चिंगारी a दूसरी run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988.
A team of पेशेवर खिलाड़ी competed at the 1994 FIBA World Championship, finishing first.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, और 2012 the USA again captured gold medals.
Facing increased competition, the USA failed to win a medal at the 2002 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost तीन खेल on इसके रास्ता to a कांस्य पदक, a रिकार्ड कि represented अधिक losses in a single year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined.
Determined to put an end to ये असफलताओं, यूएसए बास्केट initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan before losing against यूनानियों in the semi-finals, समाप्ति the प्रतियोगिता साथ the bronze medal.
the यूएसए जीती सुनहरा दो सालो बाद, though, at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a dominant performance.
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship, where despite क्षेत्ररक्षण a रोस्टर featuring no खिलाड़ी इससे the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली, the USA did not lose a single game en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated और capturing सुनहरा एकबार अधिक at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
The Steelers सुपर कटोरी XL ring
Joe Theismann 's Super Bowl Ring ( सही )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the National Football League given to the विजेता of the लीग 's सालाना संसार Championship game, the Super Bowl.
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself, the Super कटोरी रिंग offers a collectible memento लिये the वास्तविक खिलाड़ी and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
Image showing the six most आम speleothems साथ labels.
to दृश्य labels.
The Witch 's Finger in the carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` dropping, trickling '' ) is a type of speleothem that rises इससे the मंजिल of a चूना गुफा due to the टपकता of mineralized समाधान और the deposition of कैल्सियम कार्बोनेट.
This stalagmite गठन occurs तभी अंतर्गत निश्चित ph शर्तें within the underground cavern.
The corresponding formation on the छत of a गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalactite.
If these formations grow together, the result is known as a column.
The Hall of दिग्गज in the Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched, since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the water solution onto the old सतह ; स्किन oils can alter the सतह जहाँ the खनिज जल होगा cling, thus affecting the growth of the formation.
Oils and dirt from इंसान सम्पर्क can भी दाग the formation and change its color permanently.
Similar structures can भी रूप in लावा tubes, संबद्ध साथ कुछ types of lavacicles, although the mechanism of formation is very different.
stalactites और stalagmites can भी रूप on कंक्रीट ceilings and floors, although they form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the संसार is ऊँची और is स्तिथ in the cave of Cueva Martin Infierno, Cuba.
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran, approximately from the ancient city of bishapur, in the shapur गुफा on the चौथी of पाँच बरामदा स्टैंड the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
the प्रतिमा, carved from one stalagmite, is nearly high.
How I Met Your Mother is an American sitcom that premiered on सीबीएस on September 19, 2005.
The show was created by Craig थामस और कार्टर Bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers उसके बेटी ( lyndsy fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie ) to बताना them the story of how he met their mother.
We फ्लैशबैक to जहाँ it begins in 2005 साथ टेड mosby ( जोश radnor ) as a सिंगल, 27-year-old वास्तु जीना साथ उसके दो बेहतरीन मित्रों इससे wesleyan University, Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ), a law student, and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ), a kindergarten teacher, who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own soul mate, much to the disgust of उसके dost Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
And thus, Ted begins his search for his पूर्ण mate, और meets रोबिन scherbatsky ( कोबी स्मल्डर्स ), whom he also befriends.
The 100th एपीसोड of कैसा I Met Your Mother aired on January 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत for a ninth season.
On January 30, 2013, it थी घोषित कि Season 9 will be its final season.
Gringo (,, ) is a कठबोली स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली word used in Ibero-America, to denote foreigners, often from the United States.
The पद can be लागू to किसी जो is दरअसल a foreigner, or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture.
In Spanish it करता नहीं have a ऋणात्मक connotation.
Roger Axtell, a सफर तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ, टीप कि `` [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
It is slang but is derogatory only in इसके उपयोग और context. ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote विदेशी, non-native अध्यक्षों of Spanish.
The great white shark, Carcharodon carcharias, also known as the ग्रेट श्वेत, श्वेत सूचक, श्वेत शार्क, or श्वेत death, is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans.
The great white shark is mainly known for its size, with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in लंबाई, और in वज़न.
This shark reaches its maturity around 15 सालो of आयु और can have a जीवन स्पैन of over 30 years.
The great white shark is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory मछली, और is एक of the प्राथमिक predators of marine mammals.
It is भी ज्ञात to शिकार upon a variety of other marine animals, including fish and seabirds.
It is the only known surviving प्रजाति of इसके genus carcharodon, और is क्रमित पहला in having the most attacks on humans.
The IUCN list the ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क as a vulnerable species, while it is included in Appendix II of CITES.
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter benchley और the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी by स्टीवन Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
In reality, humans are not the preferred prey of the ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क.
The United States Armed Forces are the military शक्तियां of the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
They consist of the फौज, नेवी, समुद्री Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard.
The U.S. has a strong tradition of civilian कंट्रोल of the सैन्य.
The President is the military 's overall head, and helps form military policy साथ the u.S. विभाग of रक्षा ( DoD ), a federal executive department, acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out.
the dod is headed by the सचिव of Defense, who is a civilian and Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of command, बस नीचे the अध्यक्ष, और serves as the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the अध्यक्ष in सब dod-related matters.
To coordinate military कार्रवाई साथ कूटनीति, the अध्यक्ष has an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of Staff, which includes the head of प्रत्येक of the रक्षा विभाग 's सेवा शाखाओं as खूब as the मुख्य of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the Chairman of the संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ और the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त chiefs of Staff.
The Commandant of the Coast Guard is नहीं a सदस्य of the संयुक्त chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together दौरान परिचालन और संयुक्त मिशन, अंतर्गत the एकीकृत combatant कमांड, अंतर्गत the authority of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard.
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives इसके operational आदेश from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The coast गार्ड may be transferred to the विभाग of the नेवी by the President or Congress during a time of war.
All पाँच हथियारबंद सेवाएं हैं among the सात uniformed सेवाएं of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps.
From the time of its inception, the military निभाई a निर्णायक भूमिका in the इतिहास of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity थी forged as a परिणाम of victory in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War.
Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and not until the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii किया a विशाल खड़ा फौज become officially established.
The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the ठंडा युद्ध 's onset, निर्मित the आधुनिक u.S. सैन्य फ्रेमवर्क ; the अधिनियम मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the विभाग of the नेवी into the नेशनल सैन्य स्थापना ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ), headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council.
the u.S. सैन्य is एक of the largest militaries in terms of number of personnel.
It draws इसके जनशक्ति इससे a विशाल पूल of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक ; हालांकि conscription has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972.
As of 2013, the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its military forces, and appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to निधि विदेशी आकस्मिकता परिचालन.
Put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 प्रतिशत of the संसार 's सैन्य expenditures.
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced and powerful equipment, along with फैली अवस्थिति of शक्तियां around the संसार, giving उन्हें significant सामर्थ्य in दोनो रक्षा और शक्ति projection.
Freedom of speech is the राजनैतिक सही to communicate एक 's राय और विचार using एक 's देह and property to anyone who is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting सूचना or विचार, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to स्वतंत्रता of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as साथ मानहानि, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश, प्राप्त और impart सूचना और विचार of सब kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in छपाई, in the रूप of आर्ट, or through any other media of his choice ''.
आलेख 19 goes on to कह कि the कसरत of ये अधिकारों carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious ठोकर, ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों जातिगत और धार्मिक द्वेष अधिनियम 2006.
The Big बंग सिद्धान्त लोगो.
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady.
Like the name of the series itself, with the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode titles of The Big बंग सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ साथ `` the '' और resemble the नाम of a वैज्ञानिक principle, सिद्धान्त or प्रयोग, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 एपीसोड have aired.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त रै महरूम नवीनीकृत लिये a सातवाँ season.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced, ; अक्तूबर 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) थी the 34th President of the United States from 1953 until 1961.
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during World War II and served as परम् कमांडर of the अलाइड शक्तियां in यूरोपीय ; he था जिम्मेदारी for planning and supervising the invasion of North Africa in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the पहला परम् कमांडर of NATO.
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a विशाल परिवार in कान्सास by अभिभावक साथ a मजबूत work ethic and religious background.
As one of छह बेटे, he थी conditioned by a competitive atmosphere which instilled self-reliance.
he attended और ग्रैजुएट इससे वेस्ट पाइंट और later married and had two sons.
After World War II, Eisenhower served as Army Chief of Staff under President Harry S. ट्रूमैन, तब assumed the पोस्ट of अध्यक्ष at कोलंबिया University.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 अध्यक्षीय रेस as a रिपब्लिकन to काउंटर the non-interventionism of सीनेटर Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism, Korea and corruption ''.
He won by a landslide, defeating Democrat Adlai Stevenson and समाप्ति दो दशकों of the नई सौदे Coalition.
In the first year of his presidency, आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the नेता of इरान in the 1953 ईरानी तख्तापलट d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China.
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional सैन्य शक्तियां ; the लक्ष्य थी to रखना दबाव on the सोवियत संघ और reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower पहला articulated the domino सिद्धान्त in उसके description of the threat presented by the spread of communism.
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the formosa रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे सक्रिय उसे to prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan.
When the Soviets launched Sputnik in 1957, he था to खेल catch-up in the space race.
Eisenhower forced Israel, the UK, और फ़्रांस to end their invasion of Egypt during the Suez Crisis of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western सरकारी इससे गिरना to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
Near the end of his term, his efforts to set up a summit meeting with the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the U-2 incident.
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of mccarthyism by खुलकर invoking the आधुनिक विस्तारित version of executive privilege.
He otherwise left most political activity to his Vice अध्यक्ष, रिचर्ड Nixon.
He was a moderate conservative who continued New Deal एजेंसियों और विस्तारित Social Security.
Among his enduring innovations, he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ), which led to the internet, among many invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ), driving शांतिपूर्ण डिस्कवरी in स्पेस ; the स्थापना of दमदार विज्ञान शिक्षा via the नेशनल रक्षा शिक्षा अधिनियम ; और encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act.
In social नीति, he भेजा संघीय सैनिकों to छोटी चट्टान, Arkansas, for the first time since Reconstruction to enforce federal court orders to desegregate public schools.
He भी हस्ताक्षरित सिविल अधिकारों विधान in 1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years और बना पाँच नियुक्ति to the परम् अदालत.
He was the first term-limited president in accordance with the 22nd amendment.
Eisenhower 's दो शर्तें यहूद शांतिपूर्ण ones लिये the most part and saw considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59.
Eisenhower is प्रायः क्रमित अत्यधिक among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air ट्रैफ़िक कंट्रोल कॉल चिह्न of a संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान carrying the President of the United States.
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed, निर्मित, और प्रयुक्त लिये the purpose of transporting the president.
The Presidential aircraft is a prominent symbol of the अमरीकी प्रेसिडेंसी और इसके power.
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943, when officials of the United States Army Air Forces – the पूर्ववर्ती to the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स – became चिंतित with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President.
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured लिये उपयोग as a presidential transport ; however, it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record.
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this aircraft, dubbed the पवित्र गाय, transported अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to the yalta सम्मेलन in फ़रवरी 1945, और थी subsequently प्रयुक्त for another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 incident during which a flight carrying President Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the वही airspace as a वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइन उड़ान using the same call sign.
Several aircraft have महरूम प्रयुक्त as एयर फ़ोर्स एक चूंकि the सृष्टि of the अध्यक्षीय fleet, including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s, respectively ; since 1990, the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured, highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft.
the एयर फ़ोर्स is looking into replacing the two VC-25 aircraft with three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017.
A wedding वर्षगांठ is the anniversary of the date a wedding took place.
Traditional names exist for most of them : for instance, 50 सालो of विवाह is पुकारा a `` सुनहरी विवाह वर्षगांठ '' or बस a `` golden anniversary ''.
A scanner with Duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax machines, photocopiers and scanners, an automatic document feeder or ADF is a feature which takes several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier, allowing the उपयोक्ता to स्कैन, और thereby नक़ल, छपाई, or फैक्स, multiple-page दस्तावेज़ बगैर having to हस्तचालित बदलें प्रत्येक पेज.
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the `` कांच '' ) or through a document feeder.
The विशाल बहुमत of फैक्स मशीने have an adf, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of adf in फैक्स मशीने, कुछ फैक्स यंत्र स्वामी use the fax machine as a scanner, faxing multi-page documents to themselves.
Document feeders are वर्णित by गति, in pages per minute or ppm, and capacity, usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) स्कैनिंग : a reversing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or radf scans एक पक्ष of a पेज, तब flips it and scans the other side.
A duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ feeder or DADF scans both sides in one pass.
The advantage of the dadf is तेज़ गति for two-sided originals.
RADFs and DADFs are rated in बिंब प्रति मिनट ( ipm ), the क्रमांक of sides they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational and शैक्षणिक जटिल स्तिथ in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
The complex is registered as a Dallas Landmark, National Historic Landmark and is घर to नौ संग्रहालय, छह प्रदर्शन सुविधाएं, a लैगून, और the largest Ferris wheel in North America.
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed for the Texas Centennial exposition in 1936 जिससे drew over six million visitors.
Most of the buildings निर्मित लिये the exposition स्टिल जीवित and it is recognized as a significant example of Art Deco architecture.
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place in अमेरिका by the अमरीकी Planning Association.
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is an स्वतंत्र, not-for-profit शैक्षणिक organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The ग्रेट स्थान in अमरीकी कार्यक्रम helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary character, quality, and planning.”
Being designated as a ग्रेट प्लेस in अमेरिका, मेला पार्क was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011.
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California, the tenth-largest in the U.S., and the county सीट of सांता क्लारा County which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay.
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley, which is a प्रमुख घटक of the वृहद सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, a प्रदेश of 8.4 लाख लोगों और the पांचवां largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest नगर in उत्तरी California.
San Jose was founded on November 29, 1777, as el pueblo de सैन जोस de guadalupe, the पहला civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California, which later became Alta California.
The city served as a farming community to support Spanish military installations at सैन फ्रांसिस्को और monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, सैन जोस परोसा as its first capital.
After more than 150 सालो as a छोटी खेती नगर, सैन जोस और the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
सैन जोस अनुभवी increased माँग लिये housing from soldiers and veterans returning from World War II.
San Jose then जारी इसके आक्रामक विस्तार दौरान the 1950s और 1960s by annexing more land area.
the रैपिड विकास of the high-technology और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स उद्योग further accelerated the transition from an agricultural center, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San Jose 's स्थान भीतर the booming लोकल प्रौद्योगिकी उद्योग अर्जित the नगर इसके nickname, Capital of Silicon Valley.
San Jose now maintains global city औकात और is the largest नगर in the सैन फ्रांसिस्को Bay Area in terms of population, land area, and industrial development.
The u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
as of अप्रैल 2013, the estimated population of San Jose was 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa Clara Valley, experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, with characteristics of तीव्र शहरी समान to the लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल of Southern California.
The city has taken definite steps to avoid बनने `` l.A. उत्तर ''.
However, the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los एंजिल्स by उपायों ऐसे as जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व और पब्लिक पारगमन safety, investment, and ridership.
Europe चित्रित by antwerp cartographer Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it थी पहला आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स to उपस्थित, साथ the पहला होमो sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय came during the paleolithic era.
The आगमन of कृषि around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic age.
पाषाणकालीन यूरोपीय lasted लिये 4000 सालो, overlapping with metal-using cultures that gradually spread throughout the continent.
Technological advances during the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the मध्य ईस्ट, spreading धीरे to the उत्तरपश्चिम.
Some of the best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय यहूद Minoan and Mycenaean, which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period ज्ञात as शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता began with the rise of the city-states of Ancient Greece.
Greek influence पहुँचे इसके zenith अंतर्गत the expansive empire of Alexander the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western Europe were dominated by the La tène संस्कृति, a precursor to the celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC, होता grow to become the रोमन गणतंत्र in 509 BC and would succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization.
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire.
The empire was later divided by the सम्राट diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires.
During the later years of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated attacks led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476, a date जिससे traditionally marks the समाप्त of the शास्त्रीय काल और the start of the Middle Ages.
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern Roman Empire survived, हालांकि आधुनिक इतिहासकारों refer to इस state as the Byzantine Empire.
In पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, germanic peoples स्थानांतरित into स्थितियाँ of शक्ति in the remnants of the former Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own.
Of all of the Germanic peoples, the Franks would rise to a स्थिति of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, the frankish साम्राज्य reaching इसके शिखर under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; West francia होता evolve into the किंगडम of फ़्रांस, जबकि ईस्ट francia होता evolve into the Holy Roman Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
The British Isles were the site of अनेक large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the period of Roman Britain, and when the Romans abandoned the British Isles during the 400s, लहरें of germanic anglo-saxons migrated to दक्षिणी ब्रिटेन और स्थापित a श्रेणी of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927.
During this period, the Kingdom of Poland and किंगडम of हंगेरियाई ( 1000–1945 ) were organized as well.
The Viking Age, a काल of migrations of scandinavian peoples, dominated the period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of Cnut the Great, a डैनिश नेता जो होता become किंग of इंग्लैण्ड, Denmark, and Norway.
The Normans, a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of Normandy, would have a significant impact on many parts of यूरोपीय, इससे the नॉर्मन conquest of इंग्लैण्ड to दक्षिणी इटली और सिसिली.
Another scandinavian लोगों, the rus ' लोगों, would go on to found Kievan Rus ', an early state which was a precursor for the modern country of Russia.
As the Viking Age drew to a close, the काल ज्ञात as the क्रूसेड, a श्रेणी of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule, began.
Several Crusader राज्य यहूद संस्थापित in the eastern Mediterranean.
These यहूद सब short-lived.
The Crusaders होता have a profound प्रभाव on many parts of Europe.
Their Sack of कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought an abrupt समाप्त to the Byzantine Empire.
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of dog breeds कि have become विलुप्त.
Wii Speak is a माइक्रोफोन accessory लिये निन्टेंडो 's Wii video game console.
Connected to the console via USB, the device can be placed near the वीडियो प्रदर्शक, allowing आवाज़ गपशप to be conducted with the entire room.
The device features an LED to indicate जब the माइक्रोफोन is क्रियाशील.
वी बोलो थी घोषित at Nintendo 's 2008 E3 media briefing.
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing : नगर लोक on नवम्बर 16, 2008, in North America, and was released on December 5, 2008, in Europe.
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the अंतःस्थापित माइक्रोफोन on the वी U 's GamePad controller.
Nissan बुद्धिमान Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and authorization system जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ as an विकल्प or मानक in several cars.
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the name `` keyless go '' in 1998 on the w220 s-class following इसके डिज़ाइन पेटेंट दायर by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
Univisión ( ) is a Spanish-language television network in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The network is primarily dedicated for लैटिन अमरीकी परिवारों जो reside in the United States.
It has the largest audience of Spanish-language television viewers in the संसार according to nielsen दरजा.
Randy Falco, ( CEO as of June 29, 2011 ) COO, has been in charge of the company since the प्रस्थान of univision संचार अध्यक्ष और सीईओ जो uva in April 2010.
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks, and is often a strong fifth, outranking The CW, with some fourth-place weekly placings, and as of 2012, भी पहला प्लेस rankings लिये व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम over सब पाँच अंग्रेज़ी networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
univisión is headquartered in नई यॉर्क, और has its major studios, production facilities, and operations in Doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another television studio थी घोषित, univision Studios, to be built in Doral.
univision is उपलब्धियाँ on केबल और उपग्रह in सबसे of the देश, साथ लोकल स्टेशन in over 50 बाज़ार साथ विशाल हिस्पैनिक और Latino populations and a national cable network feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station.
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to संजाल shows, और in प्रमुख बाज़ार ऐसे as Los Angeles, New York, and Miami the local newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated station ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously स्वामित्व the एंटिटी saban entertainment ), tpg पूंजी, l.P., विधाता इक्विटी साझेदार, मैडिसन dearborn Partners, and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt.
The buyout left the company with a debt level of twelve times इसके सालाना नकदी प्रवाह, जिससे थी twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years.
Artist 's conception of a आदिग्रह disk
The formation and of the सौर प्रणाली is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 अरब सालो ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a giant molecular cloud.
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk out of जिससे the ग्रह, moons, क्षुद्रग्रह, and other small Solar System bodies formed.
This widely accepted model, known as the nebular hypothesis, was first विकसित in the 18th सदी by emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel Kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent development has interwoven a किस्में of वैज्ञानिक disciplines सहित खगोलशास्त्र, भौतिकी, geology, and planetary science.
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s, the मॉडल रै महरूम दोनो challenged और परिष्कृत to खाता लिये नई observations.
The सौर प्रणाली रै विकसित considerably since its initial formation.
Many moons have formed इससे घूमना discs of गैस और धूल around their parent planets, while other moons are thought to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets.
Still others, as the Earth 's Moon, may be the परिणाम of giant collisions.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day and have महरूम सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of the Solar System.
The positions of the planets often shifted, और ग्रह have switched places.
This planetary माइग्रेशन is अभी विचार to have been responsible for much of the Solar System 's early evolution.
In roughly 5 अरब सालो, the सूर्य होगा कूल और विस्तार outward अनेक टाइम्स इसके वर्तमान diameter ( becoming a red giant ), before casting off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf.
In the far distant future, the gravity of passing stars will धीरे reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets.
Some planets होगा be नष्ट, others ejected into interstellar space.
Ultimately, over the course of tens of billions of years, it is likely that the सूर्य होगा be बाएँ साथ none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title :, later as, और ) is a अनोखा लिखा by फ्रांज काफ्का in 1914 और 1915 but not published until 1925.
One of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible प्राधिकार, साथ the प्रकृति of उसके अपराधों नाज़िल to neither उसे nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's other novels, The Trial was never completed, हालांकि it करता शामिल a chapter which brings the story to an end.
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which मौजूद भीतर the अनोखा, ऐसे as असमानताओं in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
After Kafka 's death in 1924 उसके dost और साहित्यिक executor Max Brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede.
The original पाण्डुलिपि is आयोजित at the संग्रहालय of आधुनिक Literature, Marbach am Neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the book was listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of the सदी और as no. 2 of the Best German Novels of the Twentieth Century.
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11, 1968 ) is an American singer-songwriter और अभिनेत्री.
She launched her career in 1994 with the song, `` Stay ( I Missed You ) ``, जिससे थी शामिल in the film Reality Bites.
She was the पहला कलाकार to have a क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the United States while not signed to a recording contract.
Her five स्टुडियो cds शामिल उसके प्रमुख लेबल डेब्यू, the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up, the Grammy-nominated, gold-selling Firecracker.
Loeb रै भी worked in फिल्मी, television, voice-over work and children’s recordings.
Loeb has appeared in two television series, Dweezil & Lisa, a weekly culinary adventure लिये the खाना संजाल और क्रमांक 1 सिंगल, a वास्तविकता दिखाएँ on the e !
Network in 2006 focused on her क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम, कामयाबी, career, and family.
Her children 's म्यूज़िक शामिल the एल्बम Catch the Moon ( 2003 ), and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's पगली sing-along : the निराशाजनक Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011.
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear संग्रहण, जिससे is आधारित on her own designs.
The Coat of बाहें of the राज्य of नई Jersey includes:
A shield with तीन plows emblazoned, representative of New Jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing नाईट 's helmet.
A horse 's head as the crest of the हेल्मेट.
The female आंकड़े स्वतंत्रता और ceres, प्रतिनिधि of the state 's motto ( see next item ).
Liberty is पकड़कर a स्टाफ supporting a `` स्वतंत्रता कैप `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the राज्य motto of नई Jersey, `` Liberty and Prosperity '', and the year of statehood, 1776.
It was originally designed by पियरे यूजीन du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified slightly in 1928.
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New जर्सी और the ग्रेट मुहर of the State of New Jersey.
The Coat of arms contains a घोड़ा 's सिर.
A helmet प्रर्दशित कि नई जर्सी governs itself तदनुसार और तीन plows on a shield referring to the State 's agriculture tradition, giving it the nickname `` Garden State ''.
The two Goddesses represent the राज्य motto, `` स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि ''.
स्वतंत्रता is on the left.
She is holding a staff with a स्वतंत्रता कैप on it, और the word liberty underneath her.
The goddess on the सही is ceres, goddess of agriculture.
She is पकड़कर a cornucopia with prosperity written below her.
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11, 1896, the date in which the Assembly officially approved the flag as the state emblem, the buff color is due indirectly to George Washington, who had ordered on अक्तूबर 2, 1779, कि the वर्दी coats of the नई जर्सी महाद्वीपीय लकीर be अंधेरा ( जर्सी ) blue, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his own uniform and those of अन्य महाद्वीपीय सेनापतियों और उनके aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the पृष्ठभूमि रंग of the regiments ' state flag.
The seal is described in नई जर्सी statute Title 52, §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a सोंग by the बीटल्स, written by Paul McCartney and John Lennon.
It was released as a `` दोगुना a-sided `` सिंगल साथ `` दिन tripper ``, the first time both sides of a single were so designated in an initial release.
Both songs were recorded दौरान the रबर Soul sessions.
The song is an example of lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a depth that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963.
This song, `` a दिन in the जीवन ``, `` baby, तुम 're a समृद्ध man `` और `` i 've Got a Feeling ``, are among the notable exceptions.
As a medical diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally आयु 11 सालो or younger, हालांकि विशिष्ट निदान मापदण्ड for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at तनिक पाँच सालो पुरानी than the prepubescent चाइल्ड पहले the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
The term has a range of definitions, as मिला in psychiatry, मनोविज्ञान, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` विकार of वयस्क व्यक्तित्व और आचरण '' in जिससे वहीँ is a यौन वरीयता लिये children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent sexual urges towards and fantasies about prepubescent children कि वे have either acted on or जिससे कारण उन्हें तकलीफ or interpersonal परेशानी.
In popular usage, pedophilia means any sexual interest in children or the अधिनियम of चाइल्ड यौन गाली, प्रायः termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states, `` Pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the भाग of an वयस्क of engaging in यौन कार्यकलाप with a child or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the sexual ब्याज in और यौन सम्पर्क साथ रोमिल or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly exhibit the disorder, some अपराधियों do नहीं मिलें the नैदानिक निदान मानकों लिये pedophilia और these standards pertain to prepubescents.
additionally, नहीं सब pedophiles actually commit such abuse.
pedophilia was first formally recognized and named in the late 19th century.
A significant amount of research in the क्षेत्रफल रै लिया प्लेस चूंकि the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, वहीँ हैं भी महिलाओं who exhibit the disorder, and researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia has been developed, but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a व्यक्ति committing child sexual abuse.
In the United States, following Kansas v. Hendricks, sex अपराधियों जो हैं diagnosed साथ निश्चित दिमागी विकार, विशेषकर pedophilia, can be विषय to indefinite civil commitment, under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the exact कल्याणकारी of pedophilia have not been conclusively established.
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated with several different neurological abnormalities, और प्रायः co-exists साथ अन्य व्यक्तित्व disorders and psychological pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement, a variety of typologies have been सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
Julio César chávez ( born जूलियो césar chávez gonzález on July 12, 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer.
Chávez is considered by many people लिये उनके खेल आंकडे the महानतम fighter ever to come out of Mexico.
He is a six-time world champion in three weight divisions, and for several सालो he थी माना एक of the बेहतरीन pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984, WBA Lightweight in 1987, WBC Lightweight in 1988, WBC Light welterweight in 1989, ibf लाइट welterweight in 1990, and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994.
He holds रिकॉर्ड लिये सबसे कामयाब लगातार defenses of संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ), most title fights ( 37 ), most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
Chávez भी रै the longest अपराजित streak in boxing history, 13 years.
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie Randall और था an 87 लड़ो जीत streak जबतक his `` draw '' with Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching power, devastating body attack, remarkably दमदार chin और the अथक stalking of his opponents.
He ranks # 24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 Greatest Boxers Of All Time.
On December 7, 2010, he थी inducted in the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011.
He is the पिता of prospect Omar Chávez and former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez, Jr.
`` Selektion `` on the judenrampe, auschwitz, may/june 1944.
To be sent to the सही meant स्लेव labor ; to the left, the gas chamber.
This चित्र shows the आगमन of हंगेरियाई Jews from Carpatho-Ruthenia, many of them from the Berehov ghetto.
The photographer was Ernst hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर of the SS. Image courtesy of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` जले '' ) भी ज्ञात as the shoah ( यहूदी :, hashoah, `` प्रलय '' ; यहूदी :, churben or hurban, इससे the यहूदी लिये `` विनाश '' ), थी the द्रव्यमान murder or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War II, a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany, led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the नौ लाख यहूदियों जो था resided in यूरोपीय पहले the Holocaust, approximately two-thirds were killed.
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust, as were लगभग दो लाख यहूदी महिलाओं और तीन लाख यहूदी मेन.
A network of over 40,000 facilities in जर्मनी और german-occupied territory were used to concentrate, hold, and kill Jews and other victims.
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition, and some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe other नाजी द्रव्यमान हत्याएं, सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of war, Polish and Soviet civilians, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the पतन of the सोवियत संघ indicates कुछ टेन to ग्यारह लाख नागरिकों और बंदियों of युद्ध यहूद intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution and नरसंहार यहूद carried out in stages.
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society, most prominently the Nuremberg Laws, were enacted in Germany years before the outbreak of World War II.
Concentration camps were established in which inmates यहूद वशीभूत to स्लेव मजदूर जबतक वे died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings.
The occupiers required Jews and romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by भाड़ा ट्रैन to extermination camps where, if they survived the journey, most were systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every arm of Germany 's अफसरशाही थी शामिल in the लोजिस्टिक्स कि led to the genocides, turning the तीसरा reich into कया one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture of the United राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ), साथ the मिशन of `` engaging युवावस्था to पहुँचें उनके fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development. ''
The name represents four personal development areas of focus for the संगठन : सिर, दिल, हैंड्स, और स्वास्थ्य.
The organization has over 6.5 million सदस्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य, इससे आयु पाँच to twenty-one, in approximately 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, responsibility and life skills of youth through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम और a धनात्मक youth development approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused संगठन as a परिणाम of इसके इतिहास, 4-h आज focuses on नागरिकता, healthy living, science, engineering, and technology programs.
Today, 4-H and related programs exist in over eighty countries around the संसार ; the संगठन and administration varies from country to country.
Each of these programs operates independently, लकिन cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, global education programs, and communications.
The 4-H motto is `` To make the best better '', while its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes लिखा as `` सीख to do by doing '' ).
The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue square the वही ऊँचाई as the श्वेत बैंड in the कैण्टन, जिससे bears a श्वेत five-pointed स्टार in the बीच.
It थी अपनाया on 18 October 1817.
The Chilean ध्वज is भी ज्ञात in स्पेनी as la estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; ब्लू symbolizes the आसमान और the प्रशांत समंदर, श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered Andes, and red stands for the blood spilled to achieve independence.
According to the एपिक कविता la araucana, the रंगों यहूद निकला इससे those from the flag flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War.
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 बैटल of la concepción.
Generation Y, also known as the Millennial Generation, is the जनसांख्यिकी दल following पीढी X.
वहीँ हैं no precise dates for when Generation Y starts and ends.
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s, or इससे the जल्दी 1980s to the early 2000s.
The Torches of Nero, by henryk siemiradzki.
According to Tacitus, Nero targeted Christians as those जिम्मेदार लिये the आग.
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) थी an शहरी आग कि occurred beginning 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the राष्ट्रमंडल of वर्जिनिया, is a u.S. state located in the South Atlantic region of the United States.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old डोमिनियन '' और the `` माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों born there.
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by the Blue Ridge kyu और the chesapeake खाड़ी, जिससे provide आवास for much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the राष्ट्रमंडल is Richmond ; and Virginia Beach is the most populous city.
Fairfax County is the सबसे populous राजनैतिक subdivision.
The wealthiest is loudoun County.
The Commonwealth 's population is over आठ लाख.
The area 's history begins साथ अनेक स्वदेशी groups, including the Powhatan.
In 1607 the London कम्पनी स्थापित the उपनिवेश of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony.
Slave labor and the जमीन acquired इससे विस्थापित देशी अमरीकी tribes each played a significant role in the colony 's early politics and plantation economy.
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the confederacy in the अमरीकी Civil War, during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party नियम लिये nearly a सदी following पुनर्निर्माण, दोनो प्रमुख नेशनल parties are competitive in modern Virginia.
The वर्जिनिया सामान्य सभा is the oldest legislature in the Western Hemisphere.
The state government has been repeatedly क्रमित सबसे प्रभावी by the pew Center on the States.
It is अद्वितीय in कैसा it ट्रीट शहरों और काउंटी बराबर, manages local roads, and prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia, including the headquarters of the Department of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in हैम्पटन Roads, the site of the region 's main seaport.
Virginia 's पब्लिक स्कूलों और अनेक कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a परिणाम, कंप्यूटर चिप्स have become the state 's leading export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live फिल्म मेकर, codenamed sundance ) is a फ्रीवेयर वीडियो editing software by Microsoft.
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the क्षमता to बनाएँ और संपादन वीडियो as खूब as to प्रकाशित उन्हें on skydrive, Facebook, YouTube, and Flickr.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the सोलो डेब्यू सिंगल by तुपाक shakur, और दसवाँ track इससे his debut album, 2Pacalypse Now.
The song, which features R & B singer Dave hollister, is परिचय a बारह year-old लड़की नामित ब्रेंडा जो जीवनदान in a ghetto, has a baby, and is incapable of supporting it.
The सोंग explores the समस्या of टीन गर्भावस्था and its effect on the young mothers and their families.
Like many of Shakur 's songs, `` Brenda 's Got a baby '' draws इससे the दुर्दशा of the impoverished.
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general, Shakur criticises the कम स्तर of support इससे the baby 's पिता, the सरकारी, और society in general.
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin और, क्युकी वो किया नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय the baby, threw it in a trash can.
The official logo of Pokémon for its international release ; `` Pokémon '' is छोटी लिये the असली जापानी शीर्षक of `` जेब राक्षस ''.
is a media franchise published and owned by जापानी वीडियो खेल कम्पनी Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing वीडियो खेल विकसित by खेल freak, पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise.
Pokémon गुण have चूंकि महरूम merchandised into anime, manga, trading cards, toys, books, and other media.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, और, संचयी बिक्री of the वीडियो खेल ( सहित घर कंसोल संस्करण, such as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies.
In November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game related licensing of Pokémon, announced that it था सहमत नहीं to नवीनीकृत the Pokémon representation agreement.
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now the पोकीमॉन कम्पनी अंतरराष्ट्रीय ), a subsidiary of जापानी 's Pokémon Co., now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia.
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the Japanese brand.
The term Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional प्रजाति कि have बना appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y, 6 new Pokémon have been featured in promotions for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and plural, as is each individual species name ; it is grammatically correct to कह `` एक पोकीमॉन '' और `` अनेक पोकीमॉन '', as खूब as `` एक pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the first edition of the प्रकाशन दादा by ट्रिस्टन tzara ; Zurich, 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an art movement of the यूरोपीय avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many अर्जी दादा began in ज्यूरिख, स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1916, spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915.
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of आर्ट ज्ञान, दादा थी born आउट of ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया to the horrors of World War I.
This international movement was begun by a group of artist and poets संबद्ध साथ the कैबरे वोल्टेयर in ज्यूरिख.
Dada अस्वीकृत कारण और लॉजिक, prizing nonsense, irrationality and intuition.
The origin of the नाम दादा is unclear ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word.
Others maintain that it originates इससे the रोमानियाई कलाकारों ट्रिस्टन tzara और मार्सल janco 's बारंबार उपयोग of the शब्द da, da, meaning yes, yes in the Romanian language.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a meeting of the group when a paper knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to पाइंट to 'डैडa ', a फ्रेंच शब्द लिये 'hobbyhorse '.
The गति primarily शामिल विज़ुअल कला, साहित्य, काव्य, आर्ट manifestoes, आर्ट theory, theatre, and graphic design, and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In addition to being anti-war, Dada was also anti- bourgeois and had राजनैतिक affinities साथ the कट्टरपंथी बाएँ.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, और प्रकाशन of art/literary जर्नल्स ; passionate coverage of art, politics, and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, Hans Arp, Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Höch, Johannes Baader, Tristan Tzara, फ्रांसिस picabia, रिचर्ड huelsenbeck, georg grosz, जॉन heartfield, मार्सल duchamp, beatrice लकडी, कर्ट Schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others.
The movement influenced later styles like the avant-garde and downtown music आंदोलनों, और समूह सहित surrealism, देवानंद réalisme, पॉप art and Fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry, a starting point for performance art, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on pop art, a जश्न of antiart to be बाद embraced लिये anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism.
First trophic स्तर.
The plants in this image, and the algae and phytoplankton in the झील, हैं प्राथमिक निर्माता.
They take nutrients from the soil or the water, and manufacture उनके अपना खाना by photosynthesis, using energy from the sun.
The trophic level of an organism is the स्थिति it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic गर्भाशयी इससे the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A food chain represents a उत्तराधिकार of जीवों कि eat another organism and are, in turn, eaten themselves.
The क्रमांक of कदम an सजीव is इससे the start of the chain is a measure of its trophic level.
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants, move to herbivores at level 2, predators at level 3 and typically finish साथ carnivores or apex परभक्षी at स्तर 4 or 5.
The path along the chain can form either a one-way प्रवाह, or a खाना `` web. ''
ecological समुदायों साथ higher biodiversity form more complex trophic paths.
Four of the most important domesticated रेशा शलभ.
Top to नीचे : bombyx mori, Hyalophora cecropia, Antheraea pernyi, Samia cynthia.
From Meyers konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy cricket.
Silk is a natural protein fibre, कुछ फ़ॉर्म of जिससे can be woven into textiles.
The protein fibre of silk is रचित मुख्यतः of fibroin और उत्पादित by निश्चित insect larvae to form cocoons.
The best-known प्रकार of रेशा is प्राप्त इससे the cocoons of the लार्वे of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the रेशा fibre, जिससे allows रेशा cloth to refract आवक लाइट at अलग कोण, thus producing different colors.
Silks are produced by several other insects, but generally only the silk of moth caterpillars रै महरूम used for textile manufacturing.
There has been some शोध into अन्य silks, जिससे differ at the molecular level.
Many silks are mainly उत्पादित by the लार्वे of कीट undergoing complete metamorphosis, but some adult insects such as webspinners produce silk, and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives.
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, and ants ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, भृंग, lacewings, fleas, उड़ता और midges.
अन्य प्रकार of सन्धिपाद उपज रेशा, सबसे notably various arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ).
Late Show साथ दाउद लेटरमैन is an अमरीकी late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS.
The show debuted on अगस्त 30, 1993, और is उत्पादित by लेटरमैन 's production company, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
the दिखाएँ 's म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader of the house band, the CBS Orchestra, is Paul Shaffer.
the सिर लेखक is मैट रॉबर्ट्स and the announcer is Alan Kalter.
Of the major u.S. late-night कार्यक्रम, लेट दिखाएँ बाँधने दूसरी in संचयी average viewers over time and third in number of episodes over time.
the दिखाएँ लीड other late night shows in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific समय, लकिन is अंकित सोमवार through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m., and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second Thursday एपीसोड प्रायः airs on शुक्रवार of that week.
In 2002, Late Show साथ दाउद लेटरमैन was ranked No. 7 on TV Guide 's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide पैंट to continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by तब, लेटरमैन will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host.
The Real Housewives of Orange काउंटी is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता वृत्तचित्र television program on Bravo, set in Orange County, California.
It was the पहला the रियल housewives program in the series.
The श्रेणी is a voyeuristic dekh into the धनवान lives of these housewives, as they shop, get plastic surgery, gossip, fight and live lavishly.
The financial संकट, the शुरूआत of जिससे coincided लगभग exactly with the first season 's broadcast, has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses, evictions, mortgage defaults, foreclosures, and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or अन्य इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अर्थात् to stalk or harass an individual, a group of individuals, or an organization.
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in मानहानि ), निगरानी, बनाना खतरे, पहचान चोरी, क्षति to आंकड़ा or उपकरण, the solicitation of minors for sex, or gathering information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable व्यक्ति, in कब्ज़ा of the same information, would regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress.
Cyberstalking is different from spatial or offline stalking in that it occurs through the use of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक संचार प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as the internet.
However, it sometimes लीड to it, or is accompanied by it.
दोनो हैं दण्ड offenses.
Cyberstalking shares important विशेषताएँ साथ ऑफ़लाइन stalking.
Many stalkers – online or off – हैं प्रेरित by a ख्वाहिश to control their victims.
A cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन अजनबी or a person whom the target knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit involvement of अन्य लोगों ऑनलाइन जो do not even know the target.
cyberstalking is a दण्ड ठोकर कि आता into खेल under state anti-stalking laws, slander laws, and harassment laws.
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order, परिवीक्षा, or भी दण्ड दंड विरूद्ध the assailant, including jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from एक कम्पनी to another, or लिये पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन और उनके customers, clients and other external parties.
The overall स्टाइल of अक्षर होगा निर्भर on the संबंध between the parties concerned.
There are अनेक कारण to write a business letter.
It could be to request direct information or action from another party, to order supplies from a supplier, to पहचानो a गलती कि थी वचनबद्ध, to जवाब सीधे to a निवेदन, to माफी for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
Even today, the business letter is स्टिल बहुत उपयोगी क्युकी it produces a स्थाई रिकार्ड, is confidential, formal and delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the common नाम लिये nearly a सौ प्रजाति of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish, inhabiting shallow streams, ponds, rivers and lakes, and कम commonly मिला जीना in brackish water.
Historically, they have been of major importance in कारीगर फ़िशिंग in अफ़्रीकी और the levant, और हैं of increasing importance in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become problematic invasive प्रजाति in नई warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about.
Turner & hooch is a 1989 कॉमेडी नाटक अपराधों फिल्मी अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters, Turner and Hooch respectively.
The film also सितारों घोड़ी winningham, क्रेग T. नेल्सन, and Reginald VelJohnson.
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film थी originally slated to be निर्देशित by हेनरी Winkler, but he was terminated due to `` creative differences ''.
It was co-written by Michael Blodgett from Beyond the घाटी of the डॉल कीर्ति.
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly तीन महीने पहले ), टर्नर & hooch became अधिक लोकप्रिय और seemingly निष्प्रभ its greater success, even though K-9 had a very similar plot.
A पायलट लिये a टर्नर & hooch TV series was made and ran as a part of The Magical World of Disney.
This is a list of Israeli एयरपोर्ट, sorted by location.
प्रवेश to Ovda Airport
टर्मिनल 3 at Ben Gurion
Plane landing at be'er sheva ( teyman )
Eilat विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf हिटलर ( ; 20 अप्रैल 1889 – 30 अप्रैल 1945 ) थी an आस्ट्रिया -born जर्मनी राजनेता and the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ).
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 और तानाशाह of नाजी जर्मनी ( as führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the केन्द्र of नाजी जर्मनी, World War II in Europe, and the Holocaust.
Hitler was a सजा दिग्गज of World War I.
he joined the जर्मनी मजदूर ' पार्टी ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921.
In 1923, he attempted a coup d'état in म्यूनिख, ज्ञात as the Beer Hall Putsch.
the विफल तख्तापलट resulted in हिटलर 's imprisonment, during which time he wrote his memoir, Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ).
After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, antisemitism, and anti-communism with charismatic छाये और नाजी प्रचार.
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933, he transformed the वाइमर गणतंत्र into the तीसरा reich, a single-party तानाशाही आधारित on the अधिनायकवादी और autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to स्थापित a नई अनुक्रम of निरपेक्ष नाजी German hegemony in continental Europe.
To this end, his foreign and domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` living स्पेस '' ) लिये the germanic लोगों.
He directed the rearmament of Germany and the invasion of कैंडल by the wehrmacht in सितंबर 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
Under हिटलर 's नियम, in 1941 जर्मनी शक्तियां और उनके European allies occupied most of Europe and North Africa.
In 1943, Germany had been forced onto the defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats.
In the final days of the युद्ध, दौरान the बैटल of बर्लिन in 1945, Hitler married his long-time partner, Eva Braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two days later, the दो वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या to avoid कैप्चर by the रेड फौज, और उनके corpses were burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered the main cause of the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय.
His antisemitic policies and racially प्रेरित विचारधारा resulted in the मौतों of at तनिक 5.5 million Jews, and millions of other people deemed racially inferior.
अंगूठा
A domain name is an identification string that defines a फ्रेम of प्रशासनिक autonomy, authority, or control on the Internet.
Domain names are formed by the rules और प्रक्रियाओं of the डोमेन नाम System ( DNS ).
technically, कोई नाम registered in the DNS is a domain name.
Domain names are used in various नेटवर्किंग contexts और application-specific naming and addressing purposes.
In सामान्य, a डोमेन नाम represents an अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( IP ) resource, such as a personal computer used to access the Internet, a server computer hosting a web site, or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet.
Domain names are organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the डीएनएस रूट डोमेन, which is nameless.
The first-level नियत of डोमेन names हैं the top-level डोमेन ( tlds ), सहित the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), such as the prominent domains com, info, net and org, and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ).
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level डोमेन names कि हैं typically खोलें for reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks to the Internet, create other publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
The registration of these domain names is usually administered by डोमेन नाम registrars जो बेचें उनके सेवाएं to the public.
A fully qualified domain name ( fqdn ) is a डोमेन नाम कि is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted parts.
Domain names are usually लिखा in लोअरकेस, हालांकि लेबल्स in the डोमेन Name System are case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the molecular formula NO3− and a molecular mass of 62.0049 g/mol. nitrates भी describe the सशुल्क कार्यात्मक समूह rono2.
These nitrate esters are a specialized class of विस्फोटक.
A wheat कटाई in Idaho
This photo from a 1921 encyclopedia shows a ट्रैक्टर ploughing a क्रॉप फ़ील्ड.
कृषि is a प्रमुख उद्योग in the United States and the country is a net exporter of food.
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007, वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख खेतो, covering an क्षेत्रफल of, an average of per farm.
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states, it is particularly concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा, arable जमीन ज्ञात as the ग्रेट मैदान, जिससे encompasses the central region of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, नामित बाद tanzanian छात्र erasto mpemba, is the assertion कि warmer water can freeze faster than colder water.
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect, there is no agreement on exactly कया the प्रभाव is और अंतर्गत what circumstances it occurs.
There have been reports of similar phenomena since प्राचीन टाइम्स, हालांकि साथ अपर्याप्त detail for the claims to be replicated.
The phenomenon seems contrary to thermodynamics, but a क्रमांक of संभावित स्पष्टीकरण लिये the प्रभाव have been proposed.
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise परिभाषा of `` जमने '' और कंट्रोल a विशाल क्रमांक of starting पैरामीटर्स in order to confirm or explain the effect.
The Siamese (, ) is one of the first distinctly recognized breeds of प्राच्य cat.
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam ), where they are one of several देशी breeds और हैं पुकारा wichian mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a नाम अर्थ `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th century the siamese बिल्ली became एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय breeds in Europe and North America.
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue, Washington, with 64 stores in the puget ध्वनि प्रदेश of वॉशिंगटन राज्य और in the पोर्टलैंड, ऑरेगॉन metropolitan area.
In economics, the धन सप्लाई or धन भण्डार, is the total amount of monetary assets available in an economy at a specific time.
There are several ways to define `` money, '' but standard measures usually शामिल करेंसी in परिसंचरण और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily पहुँचा एसेट on the किताबे of वित्तीय institutions ).
धन सप्लाई आंकड़ा हैं अंकित and published, usually by the government or the central bank of the country.
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in धन सप्लाई क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव on the दाम स्तर, महंगाई, the एक्सचेंज रेट और the business cycle.
That relation between money and prices is historically associated with the मात्रा सिद्धान्त of धन.
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply विकास और long-term दाम महंगाई, at तनिक लिये rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy.
That is, a country such as Zimbabwe जिससे देखी रैपिड increases in its money supply also saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
This is one reason for the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling inflation.
The nature of this causal कड़ी is the विषय of contention.
Some शास्त अर्थशास्त्रियों argue कि the धन सप्लाई is endogenous ( संकल्पित by the workings of the economy, not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy.
In जोड, those अर्थशास्त्रियों देखकर the सेंट्रल bank 's control over the money supply as feeble say that there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate.
First, in the aftermath of a मंदी, जब अनेक संसाधन हैं underutilized, an increase in the money supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of inflation.
Second, if the velocity of money, i.e., the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply, changes, an increase in the money supply could have either no effect, an अतिरंजित प्रभाव, or an मनमौजी प्रभाव on the growth of nominal GDP.
लोगो लिये IMAX.
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema, wichita, कान्सास, USA, 601 seats.
A comparison between 35 mm और 15/70 mm negative areas.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion picture फिल्मी स्वरूप और a नियत of सिनेमा प्रक्षेप मानकों निर्मित by the कनाडाई कम्पनी IMAX Corporation.
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far वृहद आकार और रेज़ोल्यूशन than conventional film systems.
Since 2002, some feature films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into IMAX format for प्रदर्शक in imax थिएटर और कुछ have भी महरूम partially shot in IMAX.
IMAX is the most widely used system for special-venue फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों.
, there are 697 IMAX theatres in 52 देशों.
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ उत्पादित by क्लाइव vanderburgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as well as many PBS stations throughout the संयुक्त राज्य.
It was set in a department store, based on the फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the अभी defunct सिम्पसन 's in टोरंटो.
Many sequences for it were shot at the Queen Street West और yonge गली स्टोर बाद घंटों.
Constitutionalism, in इसके सबसे सामान्य अर्थ, is `` a जटिल of विचार, attitudes, और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law ''.
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the सुरक्षा of the रूचि और लिबर्टीज of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As described by political वैज्ञानिक और संवैधानिक विद्वान David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze, cold-stimulus headache, or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ), is a form of brief cranial पीड़ा or सिरदर्द commonly संबद्ध with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having कुछ ठंडा टच the छत of the मुँह ( तालु ), और is believed to परिणाम इससे a तंत्रिका जवाब causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head.
The rate of सेवन लिये ठंडा भोजन रै महरूम studied as a contributing factor.
वहीँ हैं लोगों जो can नहीं experience `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms.
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since at least 31 January 1937, contained in a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by रेबेका timbres प्रकाशित in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
The first published use of the पद दिमाग फ्रीज, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, was on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स कविता लिखा by रॉबर्ट burns in 1788 और नियत to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in many countries, especially in the english-speaking संसार ; इसके परंपरागत उपयोग होने to celebrate the प्रारंभ of the New Year at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is also sung at अंत्येष्टि, graduations and as a farewell or ending to other occasions.
The international Boy स्काउट युवावस्था गति, in अनेक देशों, उपयोग it as a बंद to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` बूढ़ा long चूंकि '', or अधिक idiomatically, `` long long पहले '', `` days gone by '' or `` old times ''.
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '', as it appears in the पहला लकीर of the कोरस, might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in समान कविताएं by रॉबर्ट ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), and James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the समतुल्य of `` एकबार upon a time...
`` in उसके retelling of fairy tales in the Scots language.
Ben Schulz, player of Leeroy Jenkins at blizzcon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins, sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous additional अक्षर, is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित लिये a खिलाड़ी अक्षर निर्मित by बेन schulz in blizzard entertainment 's MMORPG, World of Warcraft.
the अक्षर became popular due to a video of the game that circulated around the Internet.
The phenomenon has since spread beyond the boundaries of the गेमिंग जातियाँ into अन्य ऑनलाइन और मुख्यधारा मीडिया.
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland, California, संयुक्त राज्य, in the जल्दी morning घंटों of नई साल 's दिन 2009.
Responding to reports of a लड़ो on a भीड़ खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रैपिड पारगमन ट्रैन returning इससे सैन फ्रांसिस्को, बार्ट Police officers detained Oscar Grant and several other passengers on the platform at the Fruitvale BART Station.
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another अधिकारी यहूद restraining Grant, who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest.
Officer Mehserle stood and, according to गवाह, said : `` Get back, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the back ; Mehserle appeared दंग, put उसके हैंड्स to उसके सिर और exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During his court testimony, Mehserle said that Grant then exclaimed, `` तुम शॉट me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was pronounced dead the next morning at Highland हॉस्पिटल in Oakland.
The कार्यक्रम यहूद captured on multiple digital video and cell phone cameras.
The footage थी disseminated to मीडिया आउटलेट और to विभिन्न वेबसाइटों, where it was watched millions of times.
The following दिनों देखी दोनो शांतिपूर्ण and violent protests.
the शूटिंग रै महरूम variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, Alameda County prosecutors चार्ज mehserle साथ हत्या for the shooting.
He resigned his स्थिति और pleaded not guilty.
The विचारण began on June 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued that Mehserle mistakenly शॉट ग्रान्ट साथ उसके पिस्टल, intending to उपयोग his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree हत्या और पूछा a लॉस एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
Oakland civil rights attorney John Burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful मौत अर्जी विरूद्ध बार्ट on निमित्त of ग्रान्ट 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle was मिला अपराधी of involuntary manslaughter और नहीं अपराधी of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial protests against the सत्ताधारी यहूद शांतिपूर्वक organized ; looting, arson, destruction of property, and small riots broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 लोगों यहूद eventually arrested.
On Friday, July 9, 2010, the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil अधिकारों मामला विरूद्ध mehserle ; the संघीय सरकारी can prosecute उसे independently लिये the वही अधिनियम अंतर्गत the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
The Department of Justice will be working with the u.S. attorney 's दफ्तर in सैन Francisco and the FBI.
On November 5, 2010, Mehserle थी sentenced to दो सालो, minus time served.
he परोसा उसके समय in the लॉस एंजिल्स County Jail, occupying a private cell away from other prisoners.
He was released on जून 13, 2011 and is now on parole.
Major प्रतिनिधि of the हार्लेम Renaissance.
The Harlem Renaissance was a cultural गति कि spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it was known as the `` New Negro गति '', नामित बाद the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it थी केन्द्रित in the हार्लेम पड़ोस of नई यॉर्क नगर, अनेक french-speaking ब्लैक लेखक इससे अफ़्रीकी and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem पुनर्जागरण is unofficially recognized to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s.
Many of its ideas lived on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro साहित्य '', as जेम्स weldon जॉनसन पसन्दीदा to कॉल the Harlem Renaissance, was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of Negro Life hosted a party for black writers where many white publishers were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ).
African States between 500 bce और 1500 CE
Obelisk at टेम्पल of लक्सर, Egypt.
c. 1200 bce.
अफ़्रीकी नाईट of Baguirmi in full padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of अफ़्रीकी और the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी, continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states.
Some early evidence of agriculture in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE, and metallurgy इससे परिचय 4000 BCE.
The recorded history of जल्दी सभ्यता arose in मिश्र, and later in Nubia, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa.
During the Middle Ages, islam स्प्रेड through the regions.
Crossing the Maghreb और the सहेल, a major center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture, Mali Empire, Ashanti Empire, Kingdom of Mapungubwe, Kingdom of Sine, Kingdom of Saloum, Kingdom of Baol, Kingdom of Zimbabwe, Kingdom of Kongo, Ancient Carthage, Numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th सदी, europeans और arabs took slaves from West, Central and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade.
European colonization of अफ़्रीकी विकसित rapidly in the Scramble for Africa of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Following struggles for independence in many भाग of the महाद्वीप, as खूब as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history has been challenging for researchers in the फ़ील्ड of अफ़्रीकी अध्ययन क्युकी of the किल्लत of लिखा sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of मौखिक इतिहास, ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान, पुरातत्व and genetics have been crucial.
Curry Foley was the first player in Major League बेसबॉल इतिहास to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one batter hitting a सिंगल, a दोगुना, a ट्रिपल, और a home run in the same game.
Collecting the hits in कि अनुक्रम is ज्ञात as a `` natural cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ), and have occurred 294 टाइम्स चूंकि the पहला by curry फोली in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 आवृत्ति in एमएलबी इतिहास ) ; it has been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 offensive स्तर, the संभाव्यता of an औसत एमएलबी खिलाड़ी hitting लिये a साईकिल विरूद्ध an औसत team in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams.
In other baseball लीग, the साईकिल is achieved less frequently.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 खिलाड़ी in निप्पन Professional Baseball ( NPB ), the top-level baseball organization in Japan, have hit for the cycle, the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara.
Two players have hit for the साईकिल on the वही दिन एकबार in npb इतिहास ; इस has occurred twice in MLB history.
One NPB खिलाड़ी रै भी hit लिये the साईकिल in an NPB All-Star game.
No player has ever hit for the cycle in the एमएलबी all-star खेल or the postseason.
The main slave routes in मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी.
This article discusses प्रणालियों, history, and effects of slavery within Africa.
देखिए अरब स्लेव व्यापार, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, Maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` Slave transport in अफ़्रीकी ''.
europeans प्रायः किया not enter the interior regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक सदियां, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and गुलामी यहूद आम in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as they were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies जहाँ गुलामी थी प्रचलित, the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
जब the अरब स्लेव व्यापार और अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार began, many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military गुलामी, और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद सब practiced in विभिन्न parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions, गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the early 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, और shut bas, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows Task मैनेजर थी introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य List application, which had far fewer features.
The task list was capable of listing फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या them, or creating a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to standby, hibernate, फेरे बंद, restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a program known as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the कार्यक्रम currently running.
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the c : \खिड़कीs directory.
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action, single camera comedy -adventure television series about a trio of teenagers who fight and capture monsters and other अलौकिक phenomena कि invade the fictional town of Lakewood.
Created and executive produced by Max burnett, ग्रेग कूलिज और क्रिस मॉर्गन, the श्रेणी premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The second ऋतु premiered on जून 25, 2011 and Nickelodeon cancelled the series midway through it 's second season.
The remaining episodes of ऋतु 2 यहूद aired on nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is home to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth, its untapped जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं अनुमानित to be लायक in excess of us $ 24 खरब, yet the अर्थव्यवस्था of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s.
At the time of its independence in 1960, drc थी the दूसरी सबसे industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive.
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and stares at a white ऑब्जेक्ट, a ऋणात्मक afterimage होगा appear ( in इस मामला, it will be cyan on magenta ).
This can also be achieved by the viewer closing his/her eyes और tilting उनके सिर up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an चित्र continuing to appear in एक 's दृष्टि बाद the एक्सपोज़र to the original image has ceased.
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to float before one 's आँखें बाद looking into a लाइट सोर्स लिये a few seconds.
Closing the eye can help achieve a बेहतर भाव of the रंग in its own aspect.
Afterimages come in दो फ़ॉर्म, ऋणात्मक ( inverted ) and positive ( retaining original color ).
The process behind positive afterimages is अनजान, हालांकि विचार to be सम्बन्धित to neural adaptation.
On the other hand, negative afterimages are a retinal घटना and are well understood.
Lost is an American serial नाटक टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on सितंबर 22, 2004 on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ).
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof, based upon an असली पायलट स्क्रिप्ट titled nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber.
Six seasons of the show aired, in addition to numerous काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन पिछला एपीसोड.
ABC announced that Lost would end after six सीज़न, having उत्पादित a total of 121 episodes.
The series follows the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a प्लेन क्रैश on a यात्री जेट, Oceanic Flight 815, flying from Sydney to Los Angeles after it crashes on a tropical island in the South Pacific.
The series also includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they include the `` Others ``, जो initially antagonize the survivors, as खूब as a समूह of लोगों जो arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically features action on the island as well as a द्वितीयक कथानक इससे another point in a character 's life.
Season 6 features a detailing of the जीवनदान of the survivors in a different reality, as if the flight had never crashed.
In the following list, the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or वर्ण जो हैं प्रदर्शित in the secondary storyline of each episode.
`` no.
in series '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in the overall series, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the एपीसोड 's number in each particular season.
`` U.S. viewers ( million ) '' refers to the क्रमांक of अमेरिकी in लाखो जो watched the episode live.
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced, the last of जिससे aired on may 23, 2010.
All सीज़न हैं उपलब्धियाँ on dvd in Regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in Regions A and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a औपचारिक reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot collapses, with the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the मेहराब बस never develops in एक पैर ( unilaterally ) or दोनो फीट ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have दिखाया no प्रमाण of बाद increased चोट, or पैर समस्याएं, due to चपटा फीट, in a population of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems.
however, ये अध्ययन can नहीं be प्रयुक्त to न्यायधीश संभावित future damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons जिनकी चपटा फीट हैं संबद्ध साथ पैर लक्षण, or निश्चित symptoms in other parts of the body ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to gen x, is the पीढी born बाद the Western post-World War II baby boom.
Demographers, historians and commentators use शुरूआत जनम तिथियाँ इससे the early 1960s to the early 1980s.
the पद थी popularized by डगलस coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated Culture.
पहले कि, it था महरूम प्रयुक्त for various subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
Pressure ulcers, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, are स्थानीयकृत चोटों to the स्किन and/or underlying ऊतक प्रायः over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction.
Most commonly इस होगा be the sacrum, coccyx, एड़ियों or the कूल्हों, लकिन अन्य साइट ऐसे as the elbows, knees, ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected.
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure लागू to नरम ऊतक so कि रक्त प्रवाह to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a कारण ; shear खींचता on रक्त vessels that feed the skin.
Pressure ulcers सबसे commonly develop in व्यक्तियों जो are not moving about or are confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed that other factors can influence the tolerance of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of दबाव अल्सर विकास.
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), diseases that reduce blood flow to the skin, such as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the स्किन, ऐसे as paralysis or न्यूरोपैथी.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the आयु of the व्यक्ति, चिकित्सा शर्तें ( ऐसे as arteriosclerosis, मधुमेह or संक्रमण ), धूम्रपान or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if found early, pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in critically बीमार मरीजों, frail बड़ो, व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर जहाँ स्पाइनल चोट is involved ) and terminally ill patients.
Primary prevention is to redistribute दबाव by turning the patient regularly.
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is खूब प्रलेखित चूंकि at तनिक the 19th century.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, eating a balanced diet साथ पर्याप्त प्रोटीन और keeping the स्किन फ़्री इससे एक्सपोज़र to मूत्र और स्टूल is very important.
The prevalence of दबाव छाले in hospital settings is high, but improvements are being made.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International दबाव अल्सर व्यापकता सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in Canada, there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however, एड़ी छाले यहूद the सबसे आम facility-acquired location in the survey.
overboard is a 1987 अमरीकी romantic comedy film starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was निर्देशित by गैरी मार्शल, उत्पादित by Roddy McDowell, and loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away.
In turn, overboard was adapted into the 2006 South Korean television series, Couple or Trouble.
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin, located at the head of Green Bay, a sub-basin of झील मिशिगन, at the मुँह of the फॉक्स नदी.
It रै an उन्नयन of ऊपर sea level and is located north of Milwaukee.
The population was 104,057 at the 2010 census.
It is the third-largest नगर in the राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन, after Milwaukee and Madison.
It is also the third-largest city on the वेस्ट shore of झील मिशिगन, बाद शिकागो और मिल्वौकी.
Green Bay is घर to the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग, making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area, जिससे कवर भूरा, kewaunee, and Oconto Counties and had a combined population of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
Green Bay is an industrial city साथ अनेक meatpacking और पेपर पौधे, और a बंदरगाहों on ग्रीन खाड़ी, an भुजा of झील मिशिगन कि locals call the Bay of Green Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum, with exhibitions of आर्ट, इतिहास, और विज्ञान ; और the विश्वविद्यालयों of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
Luteinizing hormone ( LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland.
In महिलाओं, an अधि वृद्धि of lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum.
In males, where LH had also been called interstitial cell-stimulating hormone ( icsh ), it stimulates leydig कोशिका उत्पादन of टेस्टोस्टेरोन.
It acts synergistically साथ fsh.
Selena quintanilla-pérez ( अप्रैल 16, 1971 – कूच 31, 1995 ), known simply as Selena, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` शीर्ष लैटिन कलाकार of the '90s '' और `` बेहतरीन selling Latin artist of the decade '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits.
Selena had the सबसे कामयाब singles of 1994 और 1995, `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más ``.
She was पुकारा `` the महारानी of Tejano music `` and the Mexican equivalent of Madonna.
Selena released her first एल्बम, सेलिना y लॉस dinos, at the आयु of बारह.
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार और उतरा a recording contract with EMI a few years later.
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s, especially in Spanish-speaking देशों, और वो था begun recording in English as well.
Selena थी murdered at the आयु of 23 on कूच 31, 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar, the former president of her fan club.
On April 12, 1995, two weeks after her मौत, जार्ज W. बुश, राज्यपाल of टेक्सास at the time, declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
Warner Bros. produced Selena, a फिल्मी आधारित on उसके जीवन अभिनीत जेनिफर Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's life was also the basis of the musical सेलिना forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena.
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated साथ a life-sized कांस्य प्रतिमा ( mirador de la flor in Corpus Christi, Texas ) and a Selena museum opened there.
She has sold over 60 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling artists of all time.
She is also the only female artist to have five albums in u.s. बिलबोर्ड 200 at the same time.
German stahlhelm from World War II
Insignia of the bolivian फौज colorados रेजीमेंट, प्रर्दशित a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( बहुवचन, stahlhelme ) is जर्मनी for `` steel helmet ''.
The Imperial German Army began to replace the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) साथ the stahlhelm दौरान संसार युद्ध i in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a generic steel helmet, और अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape, was an instantly recognizable icon for military imagery and became a आम तत्व of सैन्य प्रचार on दोनो sides, just like the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name was भी प्रयुक्त by the stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक nationalist organization established at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the production and emission of लाइट by a living organism
Chemiluminescence, is the emission of लाइट ( संदीप्ति ) without emission of heat
Phosphorescence, a विशिष्ट प्रकार of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence, production of संदीप्ति in a सामग्री by the बमबारी of ionizing radiation
Glow in the अंधेरा दौरे, a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt विमानक्षेत्र serves as a हब नगर लिये लुफ़्थान्सा and receives flights from Star Alliance carriers.
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large, medium, small, and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport categories which are re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल आधारित on क्रमांक of वाणिज्यिक यात्री.
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport that an airline uses as a transfer point to मिलेंगी यात्री to उनके intended गंतव्य.
It is part of a hub and spoke model, where travelers moving between airports not served by direct फ़्लाइट बदलें planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the पाइंट to Point model.
अनेक hubs of the एयरलाइंस हैं भी situated at airports in the cities of the respective head offices.
Some एयरलाइंस may उपयोग तभी a सिंगल हब, while other airlines use multiple hubs.
Hubs are used for both यात्री फ़्लाइट as खूब as cargo flights.
Many एयरलाइंस भी उपयोग फ़ोकस शहरों, which function much the same as hubs.
Airlines may also use द्वितीयक hubs, a non-technical term for large focus cities.
A हब in the मध्य of a रूट is अधिक effective than at either end as connecting traffic more easily fills the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
खोखला lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on the hill of therapne on the बाएँ बैंको of the eurotas नदी निहार the future site of Dorian Sparta.
आरपार the घाटी the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus are in evidence.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic यूनानी : ), or lacedaemon, थी a prominent city-state in ancient Greece, situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in Laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th सदी bc, जब the invading Dorians subjugated the local, non-Dorian population.
Around 650 bc, it रोज़ to become the प्रबल military land-power in ancient Greece.
Given its सैन्य pre-eminence, स्पार्टा थी पहचाना as the overall leader of the combined Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 and 404 BC, Sparta was the principal enemy of Athens during the peloponnesian युद्ध, इससे जिससे it उभरा विजयी, though at great cost.
स्पार्टा 's शिकस्त by thebes in the बैटल of Leuctra in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece.
however, it कायम इसके राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC.
It तब underwent a long काल of decline, especially in the Middle Ages, when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras.
Modern Sparta is the capital of the यूनानी क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia और a बीच लिये the processing of goods such as citrus and olives.
Sparta थी अद्वितीय in प्राचीन यूनानियों लिये इसके सोशल प्रणाली और constitution, which completely focused on military training and excellence.
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens, who enjoyed full rights ), Mothakes ( non-Spartan free men raised as Spartans ), Perioikoi ( freedmen ), और helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training और शिक्षा regimen, और spartan phalanges were widely considered to be among the best in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably अधिक अधिकारों और समता to मेन than elsewhere in the classical world.
Sparta was the subject of fascination in its own day, as well as in the वेस्ट following the पुनरुद्धार of classical learning.
This love or admiration of Sparta is known as laconism or laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an इंटरैक्टिव प्रतियोगिता in जिससे उपयोक्ता compete विरूद्ध each other as general managers of virtual teams.
The players कि an व्यक्तिगत is समर्थ to मैनेज हैं पेशेवर American football players in the National Football League.
The different actions people are able to make are drafting, trading, adding or छोड़ने खिलाड़ी, and changing rosters.
Due to the growth of the Internet, Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity, particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN, Yahoo, CBS, and the NFL itself हैं समर्थ to रखना track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन, eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
Most leagues have a single सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप in Week 16 of the NFL season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in blue.
According to the उच्चतम अनुमान, the संसार population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the total number of जीना इंसानो on धरती.
As of today, it is estimated to number billion by the United राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ).
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12, 2012.
according to a पृथक अनुमान by the United Nations Population Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The विकास रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
कुल सालाना births यहूद उच्चतम in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख, और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
वर्तमान projections दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or भी overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
This is a table of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples दायरा from 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक anatomical position.
In other positions, other actions may be performed.
A gold bar is a quantity of परिष्कृत धात्विक सुनहरा of कोई आकार कि is बना by a बार producer meeting standard conditions of manufacture, labeling, and record keeping.
Larger gold bars that are उत्पादित by pouring the molten मेटल into molds are called ingots.
छोटी बार may be manufactured by minting or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets.
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 औंस ) शुभ डिलीवरी सुनहरा bar.
The kilobar, which is to say 1000 grams in mass, is the बार कि is अधिक manageable और is प्रयुक्त extensively लिये trading and investment.
The प्रीमियम on ये बार जब traded is बहुत low over the spot value of the gold making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, although कुछ निवेशकों, विशेषकर in यूरोपीय, prefer the brick shape.
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback in the National Football League, playing लिये the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो इससे 1971 to 1982, तब लिये the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the पिता of वर्तमान डेनवर broncos क्वार्टरबैक peyton Manning, current New York Giants starting quarterback Eli Manning, and former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within राजनैतिक, आर्थिक, और सोशल प्रणालियों और संस्थानों.
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes including media campaigns, public बोलना, commissioning और प्रकाशन शोध or पोल or the दाखिल of an amicus ब्रैड.
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy जहाँ a सीधा दृष्टिकोण is बना to विधायक on an समस्या जिससे plays a significant role in modern politics.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. and कनाडा हैं using सोशल मीडिया to सुकर नागरिक सगाई and collective action.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : bandera de méxico ) is a लंबवत tricolor of green, white, and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence from Spain during the देश 's युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, और subsequent First Mexican Empire.
The current flag was अपनाया in 1968, but the overall design has been used since 1821, when the First National Flag was created.
The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the नेशनल ध्वज रै महरूम in प्लेस चूंकि 1984.
Red, white, and green are the रंगों of the नेशनल liberation army in Mexico.
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram लिये tenochtitlan ( अभी मैक्सिको नगर ), the बीच of their empire.
It recalls the लेजेंड कि प्रेरित the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island.
The form of the coat of बाहें थी सबसे recently revised in 1968.
A ribbon in the नेशनल रंगों is at the bottom of the coat of arms.
Throughout इतिहास, the ध्वज रै बदला चार टाइम्स, as the डिज़ाइन of the कोट of arms and the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified.
However, the coat of arms has था the वही सुविधाएँ throughout : an त्रिभुज, पकड़कर a serpent in इसके talon, is perched on शीर्ष of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake.
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a city where they स्पॉट an त्रिभुज on a nopal खाने a serpent, जिससे is now Mexico City.
The current नेशनल ध्वज, the चौथी नेशनल ध्वज, is also used as the Mexican naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town, city, प्रदेश, or देश in अनुक्रम to बढ़ाएँ the क्रमांक of visitors.
It promotes the development and marketing of a destination, focusing on convention sales, पर्यटन विपणन, और सेवाएं.
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing विज़िट इससे पर्यटकों और कारोबार travelers, जिससे generates overnight lodging for a destination, visits to restaurants, and shopping revenues.
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most महत्वपूर्ण पर्यटन विपणन संगठन in उनके संबंधित पर्यटक destinations, as they are directly responsible for marketing the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors.
DMOs उपज अरबों of डॉलर in सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और कर for their destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination विपणन संगठन हैं प्रायः पुकारा सफर, convention, visitors, or tourism bureaux, welcome centers, information centers and more.
regardless of the नाम, ये संगठन offer many services to the traveling public.
the नीलगाय or wapiti ( cervus canadensis ) is एक of the largest species of deer in the world, and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the यूरोपीय रेड हिरण ( cervus elaphus ), लकिन प्रमाण from a 2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species.
This animal should not be confused with the larger मूस ( alces alces ), to which the name `` elk '' applies in Eurasia.
Apart from the moose, the only other member of the हिरण परिवार to प्रतिद्वंद्वी the नीलगाय in आकार is the दक्षिण एशियाई sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in forest and forest-edge habitat, feeding on grasses, पौधे, leaves, and bark.
Although native to उत्तर अमेरिका और पूर्वी एशिया, वे have adapted खूब to देशों जहाँ वे have been introduced, including Argentina, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic प्रजाति और ecosystems into जिससे they have been introduced.
पुरूष नीलगाय have विशाल antlers which are shed each year.
males भी engage in ritualized समागम व्यवहार during the rut, including posturing, antler wrestling ( sparring ), and bugling, a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases, कुछ of जिससे can be transmitted to पशुधन.
Efforts to eliminate infectious diseases from elk populations, largely through टीकाकरण, have had mixed success.
Some cultures revere the elk as a आध्यात्मिक फ़ोर्स.
In parts of Asia, antlers and their velvet are प्रयुक्त in परंपरागत दवाइयाँ.
Elk are hunted as a game species ; the meat is leaner and higher in प्रोटीन than बीफ or chicken.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक निजी, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, Bachelor degrees, Masters degrees, and PhDs across several दर्जन disciplines.
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9, 1821 as The columbian कॉलेज in the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus पेंथेरा और a सदस्य of the परिवार Felidae.
With कुछ males exceeding in वज़न, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger.
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in गिर वन नेशनल पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि अन्य प्रकार of शेर have disappeared इससे उत्तर अफ़्रीकी और Southwest Asia in historic times.
Until the लेट pleistocene, परिचय 10,000 सालो पहले, the शेर was the most widespread large land mammal after humans.
They were found in most of Africa, across Eurasia from पश्चिमी यूरोपीय to इण्डिया, और in the americas from the Yukon to Peru.
The शेर is a vulnerable प्रजाति, having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the past two decades in its African range.
Lion populations are untenable बाहर designated reserves and national parks.
Although the cause of the decline is not fully समझा, आवास घाटा और विरोध साथ इंसानो हैं फिलहाल the greatest causes of concern.
Within Africa, the वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is particularly endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild, जबकि in captivity वे can सजीव longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 सालो, as injuries sustained from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity.
They typically inhabit सवाना और घासभूमि, हालांकि वे may take to bush and forest.
Lions are unusually सोशल compared to other cats.
A pride of lions consists of related females and औलाद और a छोटी क्रमांक of वयस्क males.
Groups of female lions typically हंट साथ, preying mostly on large ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone predators, हालांकि वे scavenge as अवसर allows.
While lions do not typically हंट इंसानो, कुछ have been known to do so.
Sleeping मुख्यतः दौरान the दिन, शेर हैं primarily nocturnal, although bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the पुरूष शेर is easily recognised by its mane, and its face is one of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human culture.
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period, with carvings and paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं, through वस्तुतः सब प्राचीन और मध्यकालीन संस्कृतियों जहाँ वे एकबार occurred.
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures, in paintings, on नेशनल ध्वज, और in समकालीन films and literature.
Lions have been रखा in menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य, और have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century.
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in प्रजनन कार्यक्रम लिये the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the history of video games, the seventh पीढी of consoles is the पिछला पीढी, और शामिल consoles released since late by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For home consoles, the seventh generation began on 22 नवम्बर 2005 साथ the रिलीज of एक्सबॉक्स 360 और जारी साथ the रिलीज of प्लेस्टेशन 3 on 11 November 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
प्रत्येक नई कंसोल introduced a नई type of breakthrough in technology.
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions, the PlayStation 3 offered, in addition to FHD gaming, HD फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी, और the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining निन्टेंडो in the गति मार्केट, Sony released the PlayStation Move in September 2010.
The PlayStation Move features motion sensing gaming, समान to कि of the Wii.
Microsoft also joined Sony and Nintendo, साथ इसके kinect.
Unlike the other two प्रणालियों ( प्लेस्टेशन 3 और वी ), kinect करता नहीं उपयोग कोई परिरक्षक of any sort and makes the users the `` controller. ''
having बेची 8 लाख इकाई in इसके पहला 60 दिनों on the मार्केट, kinect रै claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers wired परिरक्षक as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद, सब प्लेस्टेशन 3 controllers can be used in wired and wireless configurations.
Starting with handheld consoles, the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 with the North अमरीकी परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a `` तीसरा pillar '', alongside निन्टेंडो 's मौजूदा खेल Boy Advance and GameCube consoles.
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch screen and built-in माइक्रोफोन, और supports बेतार आईईईई 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the संशोधित संस्करण of the nds, the dsi, सुविधाएँ दो निर्मित in कैमरे, the ability to download games from the DSi store, and a web browser.
The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, released later the same साल on 12 दिसम्बर 2004, followed a अलग pattern.
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical डिस्क स्वरूप, सार्वभौमिक मीडिया डिस्क ( umd ), as its primary storage media.
Sony also gave the PSP robust multi-media काबिलियत, कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन 3 and other PSPs, and Internet connectivity.
The निन्टेंडो ds likewise रै कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन and Nintendo DS Browser, as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles, PlayStation Portable sales have consistently lagged behind those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless, the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल रै the भेद of होने the best-selling non-nintendo हैंडहेल्ड गेमिंग प्रणाली.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( often shortened to Sgt. Pepper ) is the आठवीं स्टुडियो एल्बम by अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड the बीटल्स.
Released in June 1967, the album included songs such as `` With a Little सहायता इससे my मित्रों ``, `` लुसी in the आसमान साथ ईंट ``, और `` a दिन in the Life ``.
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ), Sgt. Pepper further departed from the conventional पॉप चट्टान मुहावरा of the समय और incorporated balladry, psychedelic, music hall, and symphonic influences.
दौरान the sgt. pepper सत्र, the समूह improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques.
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach शामिल the उपयोग of an ऑर्केस्ट्रा.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by अंग्रेज़ी पॉप कलाकारों पीटर ब्लेक और jann haworth, थी प्रेरित by a स्केच by पॉल mccartney कि चित्रित the band posing in front of a collage of some of their favourite celebrities.
Sgt. Pepper was a worldwide critical और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200.
A seminal कार्य in the उभरते साइकेडेलिक चट्टान स्टाइल, the एल्बम थी critically acclaimed upon release and won four Grammy Awards in 1968.
With an estimated 32 million copies sold, it is one of the संसार 's बेहतरीन selling एल्बम.
Sgt. Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential और प्रसिद्ध चट्टान एल्बम कभी, और रै महरूम नामित the महानतम एल्बम of all time by both All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is located beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती फिशर on दोनो दिमागी hemispheres of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories, प्रसंस्करण संवेदी इनपुट, comprehending भाषा, storing नई यादें, emotion, and deriving meaning.
The human lungs are the organs of श्वसन in इंसानो.
Humans have two lungs, a right lung और a बाएँ फेफड़ों.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the बाएँ फेफड़ों is थोड़ा smaller consisting of only two lobes ( the left lung has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis court.
furthermore, if सब of the capillaries कि घेर the alveoli were unwound and laid end to end, they would extend for about.
Each lung weighs, इसलिए बनाना the संपूर्ण organ about.
इंसान lungs
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( एक लिये प्रत्येक पक्ष ) at the level of T4.
This जंक्शन is भी known as the carina.
The conducting मण्डल contains the श्वासनली, the bronchi, the bronchioles, और the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) are made up of airways.
the conducting मण्डल रै no गैस एक्सचेंज साथ the blood, and is reinforced with cartilage in order to hold open the airways.
the conducting मण्डल warms the air to and humidifies the air.
It भी cleanses the एयर by removing particles via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways.
The lungs हैं घिरी by the rib cage.
The respiratory मण्डल is the साईट of gas exchange with blood.
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the beta receptors causes bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine, जिससे अधिनियमों on the m-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle.
This action is related, हालांकि माना पृथक इससे bronchoconstriction.
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, including carbon डाइऑक्साइड और ऑक्सीजन, हैं भी शामिल in the regulation process.
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura, अस्तर the भीतरी वॉल of the thoracic cage, and the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar ऊतक साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar नलिकाएं and terminal bronchioles.
However, it often includes any form of lung tissue, also including bronchioles, bronchi, रक्त बरतन और फेफड़ों interstitium.
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur और लाइम or नीबू रस, प्रायः परोसा साथ नमक on the कांच rim.
it is the सबसे आम tequila-based cocktail in the United States.
The पेय is परोसा shaken साथ ice ( on the rocks ), blended with ice ( frozen margarita ), or without ice ( straight up ).
Two bottles of रेड बरगंडी wine from Gevrey-Chambertin, Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the Burgundy wine of the वही नाम, जिससे in फेरे is named after the Burgundy region of France.
The color burgundy is similar to अन्य शेड्स of अंधेरा रेड such as maroon.
When referring to the रंग, `` बरगंडी '' is usually not capitalized.
The first recorded use of `` बरगंडी '' as a रंग नाम in English was in 1881.
Grave of an अनजान अंग्रेजों सिपाही, killed in 1943 during the Battle of Leros.
Because his identity is अनजान, he is missing in action.
संगीन of an अनजान अमरीकी सिपाही in Oise-Aisne Cemetery.
मारे in 1917
संगीन of an अनजान छत्रसेना, killed in the Battle of Arnhem, 1944.
Photographed in अप्रैल 1945
Graves of 11 अनजान अंग्रेजों सैनिको मारे दौरान संसार War II, in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of अनजान इतालवी सैनिको killed during World War II, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French सैनिको मारे दौरान संसार War One.
Each concrete cross has a मेटल प्लैक bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli रणभूमि, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified फ्रेंच soldiers who died in 1915
Graves of unknown eritrean ascaris मारे in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing to हथियारबंद सेवाएं कर्मियों जो हैं reported missing during active service.
They may have महरूम मारे, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or deserted.
If deceased, neither their remains nor संगीन can be positively पहचाना.
Becoming MIA has been an occupational रिस्क लिये सेवा कर्मियों for as long as there has been warfare.
Chamber of कॉमर्स Building in Center.
This building is the original jail, built साथ साथ the ऐतिहासिक Courthouse.
Both बैठना on the कस्बा Square.
the रिओ थिएटर in Center
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in बीच is स्तिथ अगला to the downtown section.
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in बीच is एक of the oldest congregations in the जातियाँ.
Center is a city in Shelby काउंटी, Texas, United States.
The population was 5,193 at the 2010 census.
It is the county सीट of शेल्बी काउंटी.
It is named for its location near the बीच of शेल्बी काउंटी, नहीं लिये इसके स्थान in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common रूप of रेड विद्यार्थियों in रंग photographs of eyes.
It occurs when using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फ्लैश बहुत बंद to the camera lens ( as with most compact cameras ), in ambient low light.
The effect appears in the eyes of humans and पशु कि have tapetum lucidum.
Theatrical followspot operators, positioned nearly coincidentally with a very bright लाइट और somewhat दूर इससे the अभिनेताओं, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience क्युकी it is reliant on the बहुत छोटी कोण between the followspot ऑपरेटर and the light.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, सांता बारबरा ( commonly referred to as uc सांता बारबरा or UCSB ) is a public research university and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system.
The main campus is स्तिथ on a साईट in goleta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States, from Santa Barbara and northwest of Los Angeles.
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college, UCSB joined the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया प्रणाली in 1944 और is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy विश्वविद्यालयों, जिससे recognizes शीर्ष public research universities in the United States.
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and is व्यवस्थित into पाँच कॉलेजों और स्कूलों offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees.
The कैम्पस is the 6th-largest in the uc प्रणाली by नामांकन with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students.
In 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` नेशनल विश्वविद्यालयों '' and 10th among public universities by U.S. News & World Report.
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th विश्वव्यापी लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग of संसार विश्वविद्यालयों in 2012. < संदर्भ name= '' shanghairanking.com/fieldeng2012 '' >
UC सांता बारबरा is a `` बहुत ऊँची कार्यकलाप '' शोध विश्वविद्यालयों और खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB घरों बारह नेशनल शोध centers, सहित the renowned Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics.
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one Fields medalist, 29 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of sciences, 27 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of अभियान्त्रिकी, और 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 host on the ARPAnet और थी निर्वाचित to the संघ of American Universities in 1995.
the uc सांता बारबरा gauchos compete in the NCAA Division I Big West Conference.
The Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in मेन 's सॉकर और मेन 's water polo.
Saint Joseph साथ the Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of st. जोसेफ is in पश्चिमी christianity the principal feast day of Saint Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
He is भी the step-father of Jesus of Nazareth /Jesus Christ.
It has the rank of a solemnity in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast.
पिछला to 1962 it थी मनाये as a feast of the rank of double of the first class.
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the anglican नियाज़, और a feast or पर्व in the Lutheran Church.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada, persons named Joseph, Josephine, etc., for धार्मिक संस्थान, स्कूलों और parishes bearing उसके name, and for carpenters.
It is also Father 's Day in some Catholic countries, मुख्यतः स्पेन, पुर्तगाल, और Italy.
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western calendars by the tenth century, और इस कस्टम थी स्थापित in रोम by 1479.
पोप st. पायस v विस्तारित इसके उपयोग to the संपूर्ण रोमन रीति by his Apostolic Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal Conferences may, if वे काश, ट्रांसफ़र it to a date outside Lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the सार्वभौमिक गिरिजाघर, the latter शीर्षक having महरूम दिए to उसे by पोप पायस ix.
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an octave, after Divino afflatu of st. पायस x ( देखिए सुधार of the रोमन breviary by पोप Pius X ), it was moved to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast was also retitled the solemnity of संत जोसेफ.
This celebration and its accompanying octave थी abolished दौरान the आधुनिकीकरण और सरलीकरण of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955.
It is still maintained by catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals.
As the traditional holiday of the रसूलों ss. फिलिप और जेम्स, may 1, had faded from the memory of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century, that of Joseph the Worker was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of Ss. Philip and James, which had been मनाये on कि तिथि चूंकि the छठे century, was moved from its traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, which at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the गिरिजाघर पंचांग, थी घटाया to an वैकल्पिक मेमोरियल, the न्यूनतम रैंक लिये a संत 's day.
The Eastern Orthodox Church मनाता संत जोसेफ on the Sunday after Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, अभिनेत्री, और लोकसेवक.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित चार लगातार number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Following her विवाह to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड Emotions ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in u.S. चार्ट history.
During the recording of the album, कैरी began to deviate इससे उसके r & b और पॉप beginnings और slowly traversed into hip hop.
इस musical बदलें became evident साथ the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ), at which time Carey had separated from Mottola.
Carey बाएँ कोलंबिया in 2000, और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a शारीरिक और emotional विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million डालर अनुबंध सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, और बाद an unsuccessful period, returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s, और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड.
Carey once again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the संसार 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the World Music Awards.
Carey was also named the best-selling female artist of the मिलेनियम in 2000.
According to the Recording उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the संयुक्त राज्य, अधिक than कोई other solo artist.
In 2012, कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey has won five Grammy Awards, 17 World Music पुरस्कार, 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा, शक्ति, melismatic स्टाइल और हस्ताक्षर use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is कोई सदस्य of the मधुमक्खी genus Bombus, in the family Apidae.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere although they also occur in दक्षिण अमेरिका.
They have been introduced to New Zealand और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य of Tasmania.
Bumblebees are social insects that are characterised by ब्लैक और पीला देह बालों, often in bands.
However, some species have नारंगी or रेड on उनके bodies, or may be entirely black.
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the नरम प्रकृति of the बाल ( long, branched setae ), called pile, that covers their entire body, making them appear and feel fuzzy.
They are best distinguished from similarly large, fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg, जिससे is परिवर्धित to रूप a corbicula : a चमकदार concave सतह कि is bare, लकिन घिरी by a फ्रिंज of बालों प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण pollen ( in similar bees, the hind leg is completely hairy, and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ).
Like their relatives the honey मधुमक्खियों, bumblebees फीड on मकरंद और एकत्रित pollen to feed their young.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a बर्गर किंग in त्रिभुज, Colorado.
In the United States, open carry is shorthand terminology for `` openly carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '', as विशिष्ट इससे concealed carry, जहाँ firearms can नहीं be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners खुलकर carry firearms जबकि वे go परिचय उनके रोज़ कारोबार, has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years.
This has been marked by a क्रमांक of व्यवस्थित कार्यक्रम intended to बढ़ाएँ the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice.
Proponents of open carry point to history and statistics, noting that अपराधियों प्रायः छिपाते उनके हथियार.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants of the Free State Project, open carry has seen a पुनरुद्धार in हाल सालो, लकिन it is नहीं yet साफ if इस represents just a short-term trend.
The gun rights जातियाँ रै महरूम मिश्रित in its response.
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, while special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org और georgiacarry.org, और निश्चित नेशनल समूह ऐसे as the गन स्वामी of अमेरिका ( गोवा ) have महरूम अधिक outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the ब्रैडी अभियान और the गठबन्धन to रोकें Gun Violence.
The Cattenom Nuclear शक्ति संयंत्र in France.
फ़्रांस produces around three quarters of its electricity by nuclear power.
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power संयंत्र in जर्मनी.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30, 2011, कि germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 रिएक्टरों are under construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear शक्ति स्टेशन operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 और 2009, तभी पाँच दरअसल आए on स्ट्रीम.
As of June 2011, Germany and स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out नाभिकीय शक्ति.
As of June 2011, देशों ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ऑस्ट्रिया, डेनमार्क, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, इटली, लातवियाई, liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera, and to समाप्त गति चित्र फिल्मी, तैयार लिये उपयोग in a प्रोजेक्टर, जिससे bears images in color.
The पहला रंग cinematography थी by अर्थात् of योगात्मक color systems such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A सरलीकृत योगात्मक प्रणाली थी विकसित by जार्ज अल्बर्ट स्मिथ and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early systems used black-and-white फिल्मी to फोटोग्राफ and project two or more component images through different color filters.
Still इससे फुटेज अंकित by Edward Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry ( कैमरा ऋणात्मक स्टॉक्स, duplicating interpositive और internegative स्टॉक्स ) और eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( positive prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Fuji 's उत्पाद हैं संगत with ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, and actress.
Ashanti is सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके eponymous डेब्यू एल्बम, which featured the hit song `` Foolish ``, and sold over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a Soundscan record as the biggest खोलने सप्ताह बिक्री लिये a new female artist, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same week, she became the पहला मादा यजमान to simultaneously hold the top two places on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '', and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with मोटे जो ).
Ashanti broke records again by having तीन शीर्ष टेन गीतों, `` foolish, '' `` कया 's luv ? '' और `` सदा on समय ``, on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week, being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles.
In 2003, the self-titled डेब्यू एल्बम जीती Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R & B album.
As of April 1st 2013, ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records worldwide.
Ashanti ended the दशक ( 2000–09 ) as the third top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé.
She also ended the दशक at क्रमांक 38 on the Top Artist of the Decade list.
She is currently on the list of The बीस बेहतरीन selling म्यूज़िक singles Since 1990 for her single Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date.
Ashanti has an अनुमानित जाल लायक of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ].
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) ``, which reached number one on Billboard Hot 100, which was also in the top 10 chart at the same time as `` foolish '', `` सदा on समय '' ( साथ ja नियम ), और `` कया 's luv '' ( साथ मोटे Joe ).
Later that year, she was acclaimed as the `` Princess Of Hip-Hop & R & B '' by her label and capped off her successful debut by जीतना आठ बिलबोर्ड पुरस्कार और दो अमरीकी Music Awards.
भीतर सात सालो of ashanti 's करियर, she has scored 16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100.
Ashanti has endorsed numerous products including Gap, Herbal essences और mudd Jeans.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, Mary J. Blige, Ella Fitzgerald, Smokey Robinson, Donna गर्मियाँ, और ब्लू जादू as उसके musical प्रभाव.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by उसके peers और आलोचकों alike, ashanti रै written/co-written the bulk of all her music.
She is currently working on उसके अपना प्रकाशन कम्पनी हकदार Written Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio album हकदार the घोषणा on जून 3, 2008 और is फिलहाल in the studio working on her fifth.
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers लिये the `` स्टैंड up to कर्कट '' सजीव टेलीविज़न खास जिससे helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research.
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military aviation arm of the United राज्य of अमेरिका दौरान और तत्काल बाद संसार युद्ध ii, और the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of the United States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United States Army, which in 1942 was divided functionally by executive order into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground शक्तियां, the सेवाएं of सप्लाई ( जिससे in 1943 became the फौज सेवा शक्तियां ), और the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding general who reported directly to the Chief of Staff of the United राज्य फौज.
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among the Army Air Corps, General Headquarters एयर फ़ोर्स, और मैदान शक्तियां corps क्षेत्रफल कमांडरों, और यूँ became the पहला एयर संगठन of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel.
In practice, the AAF was वस्तुतः autonomous अंदर the Army.
The peak size of the aaf थी over 2.4 लाख मेन और महिलाओं in सेवा and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in December 1943.
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men stationed overseas and operated from more than 1,600 airfields विश्वव्यापी.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a वृहद स्वायत्तता in जिससे to विस्तार अधिक efficiently, and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons required by a vastly increased force.
Although other राष्ट्र already था पृथक एयर शक्तियां स्वतंत्र of the फौज or नेवी ( such as the British Royal Air Force and the German Luftwaffe ), the AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its expansion and conduct of the war, the aaf became अधिक than बस an भुजा of the वृहद organization.
By the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध ii the AAF had become virtually an independent service.
By regulation and executive अनुक्रम, the aaf थी a अधीनस्थ एजेंसी of the युद्ध विभाग tasked तभी साथ आयोजन, प्रशिक्षण, और equipping कॉम्बैट इकाई, limited in responsibility to the continental United States, as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces.
In reality, Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war in every part of the world, determining एयर नीति और issuing आदेश बगैर transmitting them through the Chief of Staff.
This `` contrast between theory and fact is... आधारभूत to an understanding of the AAF. ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of सूचना विधि कि allows लिये the पूरा or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United States government.
The Act defines agency records विषय to प्रकटीकरण, outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण procedures and grants nine exemptions to the statute.
It was originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson, despite his misgivings, on जुलाई 4, 1966 as और गई into प्रभाव the following साल.
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should not be उलझन साथ the अलग और varying स्वतंत्रता of Information Acts passed by the individual states.
Many of those state अधिनियमों may be समान लकिन नहीं एकसमान to the federal act.
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and political union of 27 member states that are स्तिथ primarily in यूरोपीय.
The EU operates through a प्रणाली of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों and intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states.
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission, the Council of the European Union, the European Council, the अदालत of इंसाफ of the यूरोपीय संघ, the यूरोपीय सेंट्रल बैंको, the अदालत of Auditors, and the European Parliament.
the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट is निर्वाचित every five years by EU citizens.
The EU 's de facto पूंजी is Brussels.
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel जातियाँ ( ecsc ) और the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ ( EEC ), formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
In the intervening सालो the जातियाँ और इसके successors have grown in आकार by the accession of new member states and in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit.
The maastricht सन्धि स्थापित the European Union under its current name in 1993.
The latest major amendment to the संवैधानिक आधार of the eu, the सन्धि of लिस्बन, came into force in 2009.
The EU has developed a single market through a standardised प्रणाली of कानून कि लागू in सब सदस्य राज्य.
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes 22 EU and 4 non-EU states ) पासपोर्ट नियंत्रण have महरूम abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, services, and capital, enact legislation in justice and घर अफेयर्स, और maintain आम नीतियों on व्यापार, कृषि, fisheries and regional development.
A monetary union, the eurozone, थी स्थापित in 1999 और is रचित of 17 member states.
Through the आम विदेशी और सुरक्षा Policy the EU has developed a role in external relations and defence.
Permanent राजनयिक मिशन have been established around the world.
The EU is represented at the United Nations, the WTO, the g8 और the g-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million निवासियों, or 7.3 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी, the eu, in 2012, उत्पन्न a नाममात्र सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 trillion US dollars, representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity, and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world.
The eu थी the प्राप्तकर्ता of the 2012 नोबेल Peace Prize.
The Wales national rugby लीग टोली represent वेल्स in अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी league football matches.
Currently the टोली is सातवाँ in the RLIF World Rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League, but an independent body, Wales Rugby League, अभी रनों the टोली इससे कार्डिफ.
A total of three Welsh players have महरूम डाला into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame.
समान to अनेक अन्य वेल्श नेशनल sporting teams, Wales strip has been primarily red for many years, including now.
However in their last World Cup campaign in 2000 they did wear a कमीज़ featuring the वेल्श ध्वज, adding a touch of green and white.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' and so the teams logo on the कमीज़ is a रेड ड्रैगन.
The team date back to 1907, बनाना उन्हें the तीसरा oldest नेशनल पक्ष बाद England and New Zealand.
And it was a touring नई जीलैंड पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला निभाई विरूद्ध in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly played England, since 1935 फ़्रांस, as खूब as सत्कार the touring Australia and New Zealand teams, although they rarely toured themselves, not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975.
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals, England and France, in the यूरोपीय राष्ट्र कप, winning the trophy four times.
Wales have also competed in the संसार कप on तीन अवसरों, the first time being in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date, surprisingly making the semi-finals on दोनो अवसरों पहले होने पिटे by England and Australia respectively.
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup, being the second highest ranked side नहीं to do so, having खोया to स्कॉटलैंड on अंक अंतर over दो matches.
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the नई सिर कोच और नियुक्त ली briers as कप्तान, having played for Wales since 1998.
In recent seasons वेल्स have लिया विशाल strides अंतर्गत पूर्व खिलाड़ी iestyn हैरिस जो रै coached वेल्स to back to back European Cup successes, which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for कोई कारण, प्रायः अग्रणी to दिल विफलता ; आम लक्षण हैं dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of the legs ).
People with cardiomyopathy हैं प्रायः at रिस्क of dangerous forms of irregular heart beat and sudden cardiac death.
The most common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the अधिनियम of यौन intercourse.
It is an English word कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The origin of the शब्द is अस्पष्ट.
It is usually considered to be पहला attested to around 1475, लकिन it may be considerably older.
In आधुनिक उपयोग, बकवास और इसके डेरिवेटिव ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There are many common phrases which मेक उपयोग of the शब्द, as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the U.S. Department of Transportation 's definition of a passenger vehicle, to mean a car or ट्रक, प्रयुक्त लिये यात्री, excluding बसें और रेल.
The संयुक्त राज्य is घर to the largest passenger vehicle market of any country in the world.
Overall, there were an estimated 254.4 million registered passenger vehicles in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 DOT study.
This number, along with the average age of vehicles, has increased steadily चूंकि 1960, indicating a growing number of vehicles per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to soon exceed the United States ; by the end of 2012, there यहूद over 240 लाख गाड़ियाँ on the सड़क in China.
The United States is also home to तीन विशाल गाडी निर्माताओं : सामान्य मोटर्स, घाट मोटर कम्पनी and Chrysler, which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three. ''
क्रिसलर however is no longer among the top three ; but is number five, behind Toyota and Honda.
The motor car has clearly become an integral part of American life, with वाहनों outnumbering licensed ड्राइवर.
Clinical laboratory in a हॉस्पिटल सेटिंग प्रर्दशित अनेक स्वचालित analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical specimens in order to get information about the health of a रोगी as pertaining to the निदान, उपचार, and prevention of disease.
In poker, players construct hands of five ताश according to predetermined rules, which vary according to which variant of poker is being played.
These hands are compared using a हाथ रैंकिंग प्रणाली कि is मानक आरपार सब विसंगतियाँ of poker, the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
In some variants, the lowest-ranking हाथ can जीत or टाई.
These hand rankings हैं भी प्रयुक्त in some other card games, and in poker dice.
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by including multiple cards of the same card rank, by all five ताश होने इससे the वही सूट, or by all five cards being of consecutive rank.
The relative ranking of the various hand categories is based on the probability of being randomly dealt ऐसे a हाथ इससे a well- shuffled deck.
Bruce रान्डेल hornsby ( born नवम्बर 23, 1954 ) is an अमरीकी virtuoso ; a singer, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, and dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances, Hornsby draws frequently from classical, jazz, bluegrass, folk, motown, इन्जील, चट्टान, ब्लूज़, और jam बैंड musical परंपराओं साथ his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards, including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range, the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990, और the बेहतरीन पॉप इंस्ट्रूमेंटल ग्रैमी in 1993.
Hornsby has also achieved recognition for his solo albums and performances, उसके touring बैंड ब्रूस hornsby और the noisemakers, उसके ब्लूग्रास प्रोजेक्ट साथ रिकी skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated with आभारी मुर्दे और थी a सदस्य of the बैंड from September 1990 to March 1992, playing at over one hundred shows during that period.
गन्ना plantation in rural Cuba
Agriculture in Cuba has played an महत्वपूर्ण भाग in the अर्थव्यवस्था लिये अनेक सौ years.
कृषि contributes कम than 10 प्रतिशत to the gross domestic product ( GDP ), but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population.
About 30 percent of the country 's land is प्रयुक्त लिये क्रॉप cultivation.
The अकुशल agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा has led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
Cuba now imports about 80 % of the खाना it rations to the public.
The rationing program accounts for about a third of the खाना उर्जा the औसत क्यूबन consumes.
Overall, however, क्यूबा is निर्भर on imports for only 16 % of its food.
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega लाखो as the successor of the बिग खेल ) is an अमरीकी multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( The Big Game ) आचमन लाखो आरेखण थी in 2002 ( see below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, paid in 26 equal yearly किश्तों ( जबतक the नकदी विकल्प is चुनी ) ; प्रायः, the जैकपॉट increases when there is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no jackpot विजेता लिये the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18, 2012 आरेखण, the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21.
( See below for information on how the खेल 's जैकपॉट is funded. )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries, the jackpot is advertised as a नाममात्र मान of सालाना installments.
A cash value option ( the usual choice ), when chosen by a जैकपॉट विजेता ( देखिए नीचे ), pays the सन्निकट उपस्थित value of the installments.
Mega Millions currently uses a 5/56 ( white balls ) प्लस 1/46 ( the आचमन बॉल ) दोगुना matrix to select its winning numbers.
Each खेल लागत $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the exception ), there is an विकल्प, पुकारा megaplier ( ऐसे खेल हैं $ 2 प्रत्येक ) जहाँ non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier was बना उपलब्धियाँ to सब आचमन लाखो jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option.
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी समय मंगलवार and Fridays, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 असली lotteries और the drawings हैं आयोजित at WSB-TV in Atlanta, Georgia.
पर्यवेक्षित by the जॉर्जिया Lottery.
The largest जैकपॉट in आचमन लाखो, as खूब as in अमरीकी लॉटरी इतिहास, थी $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( साथ a नकदी विकल्प of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30, 2012 drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and Maryland.
All three tickets था महरूम claimed as of अप्रैल 18, with each set of winners choosing the cash option.
is a Japanese manga series created by writer tsugumi ohba और manga artist Takeshi Obata.
The main character is Light Yagami, a high school student who discovers a अलौकिक कोपी, the `` मौत Note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk.
The Death Note अनुदान इसके उपयोक्ता the क्षमता to मार anyone जिनकी नाम और फेस they know, by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their face.
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and rule a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the कोपी, और the प्रयत्न of a जासूस known as L to stop him.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 chapters by Shueisha in the जापानी manga पत्रिका साप्ताहिक shōnen जम्प इससे दिसम्बर 2003 to May 2006.
The series was also प्रकाशित in tankōbon स्वरूप in जापानी starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes.
The anime series aired in जापानी इससे अक्तूबर 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 एपीसोड, the दुश्मनी थी विकसित by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki.
A light novel based on the श्रेणी, लिखा by nisio isin, थी released in Japan.
Additionally, various video games have महरूम प्रकाशित by कोनामी for Nintendo DS.
The श्रेणी थी adapted into live-action films released in Japan on June 17, 2006, November 3, 2006, and February 2, 2008.
Viz Media licensed the Death नोट manga in उत्तर अमेरिका और रै प्रकाशित सब the बारह आयतन इससे the श्रेणी, a 13th आवाज़ which serves as a `` reader 's guide '', as well as the light novels.
The episodes from the दुश्मनी पहला appeared in उत्तर अमेरिका as downloadable by IGN.
Viz later licensed the anime series and it aired on Bionix in कनाडा और on कार्टून संजाल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The live-action films briefly निभाई in निश्चित उत्तर American theaters since 2008.
However, none of the video games have thus far महरूम प्रकाशित in उत्तर अमेरिका or Europe.
Death Note is one of Weekly shōnen jumps best-selling manga श्रेणी of all time, with sales over 26.5 million copies.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ संभावित pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of samhain और रै solely ईसाई जड़ें.
ठेठ त्यौहार हैलोवीन क्रियाएँ शामिल trick-or-treating ( भी ज्ञात as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
New York City taxicabs during Midtown फटाफट घंटा in मैनहटन
The taxicabs of New York City, with their distinctive पीला पेंट, हैं a widely पहचाना प्रतीक of the city.
Taxicabs are operated by private कंपनियाँ और licensed by the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ).
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles, सहित `` ब्लैक गाड़ियाँ '', commuter vans and ambulettes.
`` Medallion taxis, '' the परिचित पीला कैब, हैं the तभी वाहनों in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail.
Schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of भाग of पत्ता, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is एक of the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, but it also transports some nutrients through the plant.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating लिये the right to vote, February 1913.
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the right of women to vote और to चलाएं लिये दफ्तर.
Limited voting rights were gained by महिलाओं in स्वीडन, फिनलैंड और कुछ पश्चिमी U.S. states in the late 19th century.
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts, विशेषकर the अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद of महिलाओं ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New Zealand, then a self-governing British colony, granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing British colony of South Australia did the same in 1895, लकिन भी permitted महिलाओं to चलाएं लिये दफ्तर.
Australia federated in 1901, and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902, though uneven प्रतिबंध on aboriginal महिलाओं मतदान in नेशनल चुनावों यहूद नहीं completely removed until 1962.
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland, then part of the Russian साम्राज्य, जिससे भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला मादा सदस्यों of पार्लियामेंट in the 1907 संसदीय elections.
Norway followed, granting पूरा women 's suffrage in 1913.
In most Western countries, महिलाओं 's suffrage आए बाद संसार I War I I, with some important late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
महिलाओं 's suffrage has generally been recognized after political campaigns to obtain it were waged.
In many countries it थी granted पहले सार्वभौमिक suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of पक्षपात विरूद्ध महिलाओं, अपनाया by the संयुक्त Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by डायने setterfield is a गोथिक सस्पेंस novel, the author 's first published book.
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream christianity.सोर्सs लिये descriptors : • millenarian : • restorationist : • ईसाई : • denomination : the संगठन reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism, convention attendance of over 12 million, and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million.
They are directed by the Governing देह of यहोवा 's गवाह, a समूह of बड़ो in Brooklyn, New York, that establishes all doctrines.
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' beliefs हैं आधारित on उनके interpretations of the बाइबल और they prefer to use their own translation, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe that the destruction of the present world system at Armageddon is imminent, and that the establishment of God 's किंगडम on धरती is the तभी समाधान लिये सब समस्याएं faced by mankind.
The group emerged इससे the बाइबल छात्र गति —founded in the लेट 1870s by चार्ल्स taze रसेल साथ the गठन of zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name यहोवा 's गवाह, आधारित on यशायाह 43:10–12, थी अपनाया in 1931 to फर्क themselves from other Bible Student groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door उपदेश, distributing साहित्य ऐसे as The Watchtower and Awake !
, और refusing सैन्य service and blood transfusions.
वे consider use of the name Jehovah vital for proper worship.
They reject Trinitarianism, अंतर्निहित अमरत्व of the आत्मा, और hellfire, which they consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, Easter, birthdays, or अन्य छुट्टियाँ और कस्टम वे consider to have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity.
adherents commonly refer to उनके देह of मान्यताओं as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider secular society to be morally corrupt and under the influence of Satan, and सबसे सीमा उनके सोशल बातचीत साथ non-witnesses.
Congregational disciplinary actions include disfellowshipping, their term for औपचारिक expulsion और shunning.
Baptized individuals who formally leave are considered disassociated और हैं भी shunned.
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may आखिरकार be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The religion 's position regarding ईमानदार objection to military service and refusal to salute national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments.
Consequently, यहोवा 's गवाह have महरूम persecuted और उनके क्रियाएँ are banned or restricted in some countries.
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's Witnesses have बहकावे विधान सम्बन्धित to सिविल अधिकारों in अनेक देशों.
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic Drama film directed by Bernardo bertolucci जिससे portrays a हाल अमरीकी विधुर जो begins an बेनाम यौन relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
it सितारों मार्लोन ब्रैंडो, मरिया श्नाइडर, and Jean-Pierre Léaud.
The film 's raw portrayal of यौन हिंसा और emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय विवाद and drew various levels of government censorship.
The mpaa दिया the फिल्मी an x rating upon release in the United States.
After revisions यहूद बना to the MPAA ratings code, it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored r-rated cut in 1981.
The film has its NC-17 दरजा लिये `` कुछ सुस्पष्ट sexual content. ''
Windows XP is an operating system produced by microsoft लिये उपयोग on निजी कंप्यूटर, सहित घर और कारोबार desktops, laptops and media centers.
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24, 2001, it is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, आधारित on संस्थापित user base.
The name `` XP '' is छोटी लिये `` अनुभव '', highlighting the enhanced user experience.
Windows XP, the successor to खिड़कियाँ 2000 और खिड़कियाँ me, थी the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel.
Windows XP was released विश्वव्यापी लिये खुदरा बिक्री on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, and over 400 million copies were in use in January 2006.
It was succeeded by खिड़कियाँ विस्टा in January 2007.
Direct OEM and retail sales of Windows XP ceased on जून 30, 2008.
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell समवेत कंप्यूटर ) कार्यक्रम until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support लिये खिड़कियाँ xp और दफ्तर 2003 होता समाप्त on अप्रैल 8, 2014 और सुझाया कि administrators begin preparing to migrate to a newer OS.
The NT -based versions of Windows, which are प्रोग्रामित in c, C++, और सभा, हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके improved stability and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface, a change microsoft प्रचारित as अधिक user-friendly than पिछला संस्करण of Windows.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL नरक `` कि plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, improved side-by-side सभा technology in Windows XP allows side-by-side installation, registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation.
It is also the पहला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ to उपयोग उत्पाद activation to combat illegal copying.
During खिड़कियाँ xp 's विकास, the प्रोजेक्ट थी codenamed `` whistler '', after Whistler, British Columbia, as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics आंकड़ा उत्पन्न by जाल अनुप्रयोग, Windows XP was the most widely used operating system until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month since at least November 2007, the first month लिये जिससे आंकडे हैं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ इससे जाल अनुप्रयोग.
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music and lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos gardel और अल्फ्रेडो le प्रभा क्रमशः.
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a सिर '', जिससे refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head.
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track जुआरी जो compares उसके व्यसन लिये घोड़े साथ his attraction to women.
Alfredo Le प्रभा थी a ब्राज़ीलियाई इससे são पाउलो, a much italian-influenced क्षेत्रफल in ब्राज़ील, और भी the जन्मस्थान of Zequinha de Abreu, composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá.
Le Pera and gardel died in an वायुयान crash in Medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
Por ऊना cabeza
The tango has since been performed by numerous टैंगो orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True Lies ( 1994 ), Titanic ( 1996 ), Bad Santa ( Uncut Version, 2003 ), All the King 's Men ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of South कोरियाई नाटक श्रेणी मीठी जासूस ( 2005–08 ), the शुरूआत और समाप्ति क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm sorry, i प्रेम तुम ( 2004 ), और the एपीसोड `` bas the खरगोश छेद `` ( 2007 ).
In the फिल्म frida ( सलमा हायेक, 2002 ), Gardel is heard singing it on a radio.
It is also quoted in दाउद डेल tredici 's `` Good News !
Nilda is वापस '' ( इससे the song cycle Miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` The टैंगो प्रोजेक्ट '', जो दरअसल appear in the नाचना scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ).
John विलियम्स arranged a संस्करण of the टुकड़ा कि appears on the album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have also performed the piece साथ in सजीव concerts.
In 2012 a dance version थी released by the समूह `` Da Carrera '' featuring the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is एक of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया लूप in जिससे an elevated रक्त दबाव reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood pressure to decrease ; likewise, decreased blood pressure activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized neurons, known as baroreceptors, in the aortic arch, carotid sinuses, and elsewhere to मॉनिटर परिवर्तन in रक्त दबाव और रिले them to the brainstem.
Subsequent changes in रक्त दबाव हैं mediated by the autonomic nervous system.
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative feedback loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin प्रणाली.
The Loma Prieta earthquake, also known as the Quake of '89 and the World Series Earthquake, was a major earthquake that struck the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया on अक्तूबर 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and measured 6.9 on both the पल परिमाण स्केल ( surface-wave परिमाण 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake मारे 63 लोगों throughout northern California, injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless.
the भूकंप occurred दौरान the warm-up अभ्यास लिये the तीसरा खेल of the 1989 World Series, featuring both of the Bay Area 's Major League Baseball teams, the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related sports coverage, this थी the पहला प्रमुख भूकंप in the संयुक्त राज्य to have its initial jolt broadcast live on television.
Pawn in the मानक staunton पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in the खेल of शतरंज, historically representing infantry or, अधिक विशेषकर, हथियारबंद peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the खेल साथ आठ प्यादे, एक on प्रत्येक वर्गाकार of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces.
( In बीजीय संकेतन, the श्वेत प्यादे प्रारंभ on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, while black pawns start on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual प्यादे हैं referred to by the file on which they stand.
For example, one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '', or less commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` White 's किंग 's बिशप साहूकार '' or `` ब्लैक 's महारानी 's नाईट pawn ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file, a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file ), a बिशप साहूकार ( on the c- or f-file ), a महारानी साहूकार ( on the d-file ), a king pawn ( on the e-file ), and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
The armed forces of most developed countries have now removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ).
Nations that permit gay लोगों to serve खुलकर in the सैन्य शामिल the 4 of the 5 सदस्यों of the un सुरक्षा परिषद ( संयुक्त States, United Kingdom, France, and Russia ), the Republic of China ( Taiwan ), Australia, Israel, South Africa, Argentina, and all NATO members excluding Turkey.
Hydrogen production is the परिवार of औद्योगिक methods for generating hydrogen.
Currently the प्रबल प्रौद्योगिकी for direct production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons.
Many other methods are known including electrolysis और thermolysis.
in 2006, the संयुक्त राज्य was estimated to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen.
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in oil refining, and in the उत्पादन of अमोनिया ( haber प्रक्रम ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 million tonnes यहूद an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
Hydrogen उत्पादन is an अनुमानित $ 100 अरब industry.
A basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '', also known as a `` बीप '' ) is a ईकाई बराबर to एक hundredth of a प्रतिशत पाइंट, or एक भाग per ten thousand, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally अर्थ 'for ( प्रत्येक ) असंख्य ( टेन हजार ) ', और in कि कॉन्टेक्स्ट is लिखा साथ जिससे looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator, although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
A basis point is पारिभाषित as:
1 आधार पाइंट = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत मतभेद of कम than 1 % are discussed.
The most common example is ब्याज दरों, जहाँ मतभेद in ब्याज दरों of कम than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g. a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ).
जैसे प्रतिशत अंक, आधार अंक avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute discussions about interest rates by dealing only with the absolute change in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % interest rate, this could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( सापेक्ष, 1 % of 10 % ), or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the report says there रै महरूम a `` 10 आधार पाइंट बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % ब्याज रेट, तब we know that the interest rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis points to denote a rate change in a वित्तीय यंत्र, or the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between two interest rates, including the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying सुरक्षा, वे होगा प्रायः be कोटेड as a स्प्रेड over ( or under ) the index.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is कहा to be 50 आधार अंक over libor, जिससे is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
The term `` basis point '' has its origins in trading the `` आधार '' or the स्प्रेड between two interest rates.
Since the basis is प्रायः छोटी, ये हैं कोटेड multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point.
Contrast with pips in fx आगे markets.
The relationship between percentage परिवर्तन और आधार अंक can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage point change = 100 basis points, and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point.
So, a bond whose उपज increases इससे 5 % to 5.5 % is कहा to बढ़ाएँ by 50 basis points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis points.
The British Royal Family is the समूह of बंद रिश्तेदारों of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of any of the अन्य राष्ट्रमंडल realms, यूँ sometimes at variance साथ आधिकारिक national terms for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by जनम or विवाह, the हाउस of विंडसर, चूंकि 1917, जब जार्ज V changed the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany and given the British Royal Family 's strong German ancestry ; it थी लगा कि इसके पब्लिक चित्र could be improved by choosing a more British house name.
The new name chosen, विंडसर, था बिल्कुल no कनेक्शन अन्य than as the नाम of the castle which was and continues to be a royal residence.
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family, and different lists will include different people, those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ), or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members, which प्रायः परिणाम in the अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the विधवा consorts of पिछला monarchs, the children of the monarch और पिछला monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch और previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons.
On 30 November 1917, King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are सदस्यों of the royal परिवार ; the टेक्स्ट of the सूचना इससे the लंदन Gazette is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty The Queen modified these Letters Patent, as थी evidenced by इस सूचना इससे the लंदन Gazette:
In 2013 अक्षर पेटेंट यहूद जारी to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to additional persons to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various स्थान throughout the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, sometimes for extended periods as viceroys, or for specific ceremonies or events.
Today, they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम और विदेश on निमित्त of the संयुक्त किंगडम.
Aside from the monarch, their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve, if eligible and when appointed by letters patent, as a Counsellor of State, two or more of जिसको कसरत the प्राधिकार of the क्राउन ( भीतर stipulated हद ) in the indisposal or अनुपस्थिति from the British realm of the monarch.
In the other realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल रॉयल्टी do नहीं serve as Counsellors of State.
however in प्रत्येक ऐसे फ्रेम the monarch 's परिवार सदस्यों may अधिनियम on behalf of, are funded by, and represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
The Queen, her consort, उसके children और grandchildren, as खूब as सब पूर्व अधिपति ' children और grandchildren थाम places in the first sections of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' precedence, and husbands of princesses are unofficially लकिन habitually लगाई साथ उनके पत्नियां as well.
However, the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra, जो henceforth लो निजी पूर्वता over the duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, जो is वरना the फ्रेम 's उच्चतम ranking woman after the Queen herself.
She किया नहीं alter the सापेक्ष पूर्वता of अन्य born-princesses, such as the daughters of her younger sons.
Haiti ( ; Haitian क्रियोल ayiti ), officially the गणतंत्र of Haiti ( ; ), is a Caribbean country.
It occupies the western, smaller portion of the island of Hispaniola, in the वृहद antillean द्वीपसमूह, जिससे it साझा with the Dominican Republic.
Ayiti ( land of high kyu ) थी the स्वदेशी taíno or Amerindian name for the island.
The country 's उच्चतम पाइंट is Pic la Selle, at.
the कुल क्षेत्रफल of Haiti is and its capital is Port-au-Prince.
haitian क्रियोल और French are the official languages.
Haiti 's regional, historical, and ethno-linguistic स्थिति is अद्वितीय लिये अनेक reasons.
It was the first स्वतंत्र स्वदेश of लैटिन अमेरिका और the caribbean, the पहला ब्लैक -led republic in the world, and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade.
In 2012, हैती घोषित इसके इरादे to seek associate membership status in the African Union.
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly francophone स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र in the Americas.
It is एक of तभी दो स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र in the americas ( साथ साथ कनाडा ) to designate फ्रेंच as an official language ; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the सबसे populous पूरा member-state of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest देश in the americas as measured by the Human Development Index.
Political violence has occurred regularly throughout इसके इतिहास, अग्रणी to government instability.
Most recently, in फ़रवरी 2004, a तख्तापलट d'état originating in the north of the country forced the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A provisional government took control with security provided by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र स्थिरीकरण मिशन in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel Martelly, the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, थी निर्वाचित in the haitian general election, 2011.
The island has had a इतिहास of destructive भूकंप.
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck हैती on 12 जनवरी 2010 और तबाह port-au-prince.
The highest reliable death गिनती थी अनुमानित at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates were higher.
The Presidential palace, Parliament and many other important structures were destroyed, along with अनगिनत घरों और व्यवसायों, leaving सैंकड़ों of हज़ारों of people homeless.
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of the क्षति हैती endured in 2010, as खूब as a सरकारी कि थी अप्रभावी well before the earthquake.
United States aid organizations have दान $ 2 billion.
Combined with other international donations, ये निधि हैं intended to योगदान to the rebuilding of the country.
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo, the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer, DJ and photographer.
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known लिये the ब्लैक venom मुखौटा he wears during performances.
In fact, the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार उसके छाती, जिससे is दोनो the साल कि the निर्माता और punk-rock was born.
`` The Bloody Beetroots DJ set '' contains सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo and Tommy Tea.
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s, operated by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless दूरसंचार यंत्र कि receives और प्रदर्शक numeric or text messages, or receives and announces voice messages.
One-way pagers can only receive messages, while response pagers and two-way pagers can also acknowledge, जवाब to, और originate संदेश using an आतंरिक transmitter.
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or more fixed transmitters ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way pagers, एक or अधिक आधार स्टेशन ), as खूब as a क्रमांक of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range इससे a रेस्तरां प्रणाली साथ a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर, to a nationwide system with thousands of high-power base stations.
One of the first practical paging services was शुभारम्भ in 1950 लिये physicians in the New York City area.
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर कि होता प्राप्त फोन संदेश भीतर ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The प्रणाली थी manufactured by the Reevesound Company and operated by Telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis Mitchell combined elements of मोटोरोला 's walkie talkie और ऑटोमोबाइल रेडियो technologies to create the first transistorized pager, and from this point, paging technology continued to advance, and pager adoption continued to expand, until the early 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as सेल्यूलर technologies became सस्ता and more widely available, advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche products, finding preferential use in अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as अस्पताल, पब्लिक सुरक्षा, और खुदरा स्थितियाँ जहाँ उनके सादगी, ऊँची विश्वसनीयता, and low cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a कस्बा in dorchester काउंटी, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, United States.
The population थी 196 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
As पारिभाषित by the u.S. दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन और बजट, और प्रयुक्त by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes only, Reevesville is included within the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6, 1907 – July 13, 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार, born in coyoacán, जो is बेहतरीन known for her self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began and ended in मैक्सिको नगर, in her home known as the Blue House.
She gave her birth date as July 7, 1910, लकिन उसके जनम प्रमाणपत्र shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her जनम to coincide साथ the साल of the शुरूआत of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin with the birth of modern Mexico.
Her work has been मनाये in मैक्सिको as emblematic of नेशनल और स्वदेशी परंपरा, और by नारीवादी for its uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form.
Mexican culture and Amerindian cultural tradition are important in her work, which has been sometimes characterized as naïve art or folk art.
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 André Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist गति, वर्णित kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb ''.
Kahlo था a volatile विवाह with the famous Mexican artist Diego Rivera.
She suffered lifelong स्वास्थ्य problems.
अनेक of उसके स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं were the result of a traffic accident she survived as a teenager.
Recovering from her injuries isolated her from other people and this isolation बहकावे उसके works, अनेक of जिससे हैं self-portraits of एक sort or another.
Kahlo suggested, `` I paint myself because I am so प्रायः अलोन और क्युकी i am the विषय I know best. ''
She also stated, `` i थी born a bitch.
I थी born a painter. ''
300px
theresienwiese on the दिन पहले Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in म्यूनिख, बायर्न, जर्मनी, कार्यशील इससे लेट September to the first weekend in October.
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and is the world 's largest fair, साथ अधिक than 6 लाख लोगों from around the world attending the event every year.
To the स्थानीय, it is नहीं पुकारा oktoberfest, but `` die Wiesn '', after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves.
The oktoberfest is an important part of Bavarian culture, having been held since 1810.
Other cities आरपार the संसार भी थाम oktoberfest जश्न, modeled after the original Munich event.
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen days up to, and including, the पहला संडे in अक्तूबर.
In 1994, the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd, तब the पर्व होता go on until October 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the festival is now 17 days when the first Sunday is अक्तूबर 2 और 18 दिनों जब it is अक्तूबर 1.
In 2010, the festival lasted until the first सोमवार in अक्तूबर, to चिह्नित the वर्षगांठ of the event.
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese ( field, or meadow, of Therese ), प्रायः पुकारा wiesn लिये छोटी, स्तिथ near Munich 's center.
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are consumed, साथ लगभग 7 लाख liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007.
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ), Schweinebraten ( roast pork ), Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ), Steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड मछली on a स्टिक ), würstl ( sausages ) साथ साथ brezeln ( pretzel ), knödel ( आलू or ब्रैड पकौड़ी ), Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ), Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ), Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter साथ cheese and garnishes
Wheels of gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a diverse समूह of milk-based खाना उत्पाद.
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging जायका, textures, and forms.
चीज consists of प्रोटीन और मोटे from milk, usually the milk of cows, buffalo, goats, or sheep.
It is produced by जामन of the मिल्क प्रोटीन casein.
Typically, the milk is acidified and जोड of the एंजाइम rennet कल्याणकारी coagulation.
The solids are separated and pressed into फाइनल रूप.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at कुकिंग तापमान.
Hundreds of types of cheese इससे विभिन्न देशों are produced.
Their styles, textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's diet ), whether वे have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat सामग्री, the जीवाणु और मोल्ड, the प्रसंस्करण, और aging.
Herbs, spices, or लकडी धुँआ may be प्रयुक्त as flavoring agents.
The yellow to red color of many cheeses, such as Red Leicester, is सामान्यतः formed इससे adding annatto.
लिये a few cheeses, the मिल्क is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice.
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser उपाधि by जीवाणु, which turn milk sugars into lactic acid, then the addition of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet हैं उपलब्धियाँ ; सबसे हैं उत्पादित by fermentation of the कवक Mucor miehei, but others have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued for its पोर्टेबिलिटी, long जीवन, और ऊँची सामग्री of मोटे, protein, calcium, and phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk, although how long a cheese will keep may depend on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a चीज चाहिए be खपत भीतर तीन to पाँच दिनों of opening.
Generally बोलना, मुश्किल cheeses पिछला longer than soft cheeses, such as Brie or goat 's milk cheese.
Cheesemakers near a dairy region may benefit इससे fresher, lower-priced मिल्क, and lower shipping costs.
The long storage life of some चीज, विशेषकर if it is encased in a protective rind, allows selling when markets are favorable.
अतिरिक्त संघटक may be added to some cheeses, such as black peppers, garlic, chives or cranberries.
A specialist विक्रेता of चीज is sometimes known as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in this field, like वाइन or कुकिंग, requires कुछ औपचारिक शिक्षा और सालो of चख and hands-on experience.
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the चीज inventory ; selecting the चीज मेनू, खरीदना, receiving, storage, and ripening.
Legal citation signals are a नियत of ब्रैड abbreviated वाक्यांश or शब्द प्रयुक्त to clarify the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or उपयोगिता of a particular सन्दर्भ जब the सन्दर्भ itself does not provide adequate information.
Most citation signals are placed in सामने of the citation to जिससे they apply.
For example, in the अनुच्छेद जब लिखने a legal argument, it is important to refer to primary sources.
to assist पाठक in locating ये स्त्रोत, it is desirable to use a standardized citation format.
See generally हार्वर्ड विधि पुनर्विलोकन संघ, The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some courts may आवश्यकता कोई विधिक papers कि हैं सुपुर्द to them to conform to a different citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` देखिए generally, '' जिससे indicates कि the citation `` the Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic.
Neil Alden आर्मस्ट्रांग ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – अगस्त 25, 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to walk on the Moon.
He was also an aerospace इंजीनियर, नवल एविएटर, परीक्षण pilot, and university professor.
Before becoming an astronaut, आर्मस्ट्रांग थी an अधिकारी in the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War.
After the war, he earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue University and परोसा as a परीक्षण पायलट at the नेशनल सलाहकार कमेटी लिये aeronautics high-speed उड़ान Station, now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center, where he logged over 900 flights.
He later completed ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of Southern California.
A भागीदार in the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स 's man in स्पेस soonest और x-20 dyna-soar इंसान spaceflight programs, Armstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962.
He made his first space flight, as कमांड pilot of Gemini 8, in 1966, becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On this मिशन, he performed the पहला डॉकिंग of two spacecraft, with pilot David Scott.
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight was as mission commander of the Apollo 11 moon लैंडिंग, in जुलाई 1969.
On this मिशन, आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन descended to the चंद्र सतह और खर्च two and a half hours exploring, while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module.
Along with Collins and Aldrin, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President रिचर्ड निक्सन ; in 1978, अध्यक्ष jimmy कार्टर प्रस्तुत आर्मस्ट्रांग the congressional स्पेस पदक of Honor in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in सिनसिनाटी, ओहियो, on अगस्त 25, 2012, at the age of 82, after complications from coronary artery bypass surgery.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the पहला u.s. ट्रिपल क्राउन champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
he is माना to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th सदी, the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
सचिवालय थी sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन County, Virginia.
Like उसके प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन turcotte, साथ साथ apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered रंगों and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, और weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the capital and largest नगर of स्पेन.
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire जनसांख्यिकी of the मैड्रिड महानगर क्षेत्रफल is calculated to be around 6.5 million.
It is the third-largest नगर in the यूरोपीय संघ, बाद London and Berlin, and its metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris.
the नगर spans a total of.
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of मैड्रिड ( जिससे comprises the नगर of मैड्रिड, इसके conurbation and extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital city of Spain, seat of government, और निवास of the स्पेनी monarch, मैड्रिड is also the political, economic and cultural centre of Spain.
The current mayor is Ana botella इससे the लोगों 's Party ( PP ).
The मैड्रिड शहरी agglomeration रै the third-largest जीडीपी in the यूरोपीय संघ और इसके प्रभाव in राजनीती, education, entertainment, environment, media, fashion, science, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities.
Due to its आर्थिक आउटपुट, ऊँची मानक of जीना, और मार्केट size, Madrid is considered the major financial centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the महाद्वीप, और the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable city in the संसार according to monocle पत्रिका, in its 2010 index.
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय शहरों in 2010. < संदर्भ name= '' एचटीटीपी : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Madrid घरों the मुख्यालय of the संसार पर्यटन संगठन ( wto ), belonging to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र संगठन ( un ), the segib, the संगठन of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language Academies, headquarters of the Royal Spanish Academy ( RAE ), the cervantes संस्थान और the न्यास of तात्कालिक Spanish ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes fairs as fitur, आरको, simo tci और the cibeles Madrid Fashion Week.
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure, it has preserved the look and महसूस of अनेक of इसके historic neighbourhoods and streets.
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park, founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल क्रमांक of नेशनल संग्रहालय, और the सुनहरी त्रिभुज of आर्ट, स्तिथ साथ the paseo डेल प्राडो और comprising तीन आर्ट संग्रहालय : प्राडो संग्रहालय, the museo nacional centro de arte Reina Sofía, a museum of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have become the monument symbol of the city.
The path of the via appia और of the Via Appia Traiana.
Remains of the Appian Way in Rome, निकट quarto Miglio
निकट Rome.
The Appian Way ( लैटिन और इतालवी : via appia ) थी एक of the earliest और रणनीतिक most important Roman roads of the ancient republic.
It connected Rome to brindisi, apulia, in southeast Italy.
Its importance is indicated by its आम नाम, अंकित by Statius :
Appia teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the Appian रास्ता is the महारानी of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a military सड़क to the दक्षिण in 312 bc दौरान the samnite Wars.
The Draupner wave, a सिंगल दानव वेव measured on नई साल 's दिन 1995, आखिरकार confirmed the existence of freak waves, which had previously been considered near-mythical
दुष्ट लहरें ( भी ज्ञात as freak लहरें, दानव लहरें, कातिल लहरें, extreme waves, and abnormal waves ) are relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far out at sea, and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, they are more precisely defined as waves whose height is more than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ), जिससे is itself पारिभाषित as the औसत of the largest तीसरा of waves in a wave record.
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves found at समुद्र ; वे हैं, बल्कि, surprisingly large waves for a given sea state.
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause, but occur जहाँ शारीरिक कारकों such as high winds and strong currents cause waves to merge to create a single exceptionally large wave.
Electress Sophia of हनोवर ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन is the ordered अनुक्रम of all those people eligible to succeed to the throne of the United Kingdom and the other 15 Commonwealth realms.
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the electress sophia of हनोवर और उसके वंशजों while excluding Roman Catholics.
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to succeed, but the work of genealogical authors and amateur शोधकर्ताओं suggests कि वहीँ हैं अनेक हजार लोगों potentially in line.
At a summit in Perth, Western Australia in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture, समाप्त the exclusion of लोगों शादीशुदा to रोमन catholics, और मेक अन्य परिवर्तन in the उत्तराधिकार rules.
The line of succession is also used to select the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) अंतर्गत the प्रावधानों of the रीजेंसी Act 1937.
For earlier versions of the line of उत्तराधिकार, देखिए इतिहास of the British line of succession.
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) was an American film and stage कर्ता the नई यॉर्क times’ obituary विख्यात उसके portrayal of `` मूडी, संवेदनशील young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun, the anguished कैथोलिक पुजारी in हिचकॉक 's i कबूल, the doomed नियमित सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली prewitt in फ्रेड zinnemann 's इससे यहाँ to शाश्वत, और the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car crash in 1956, and दारू और नुस्खा ड्रग गाली, he became erratic.
Nevertheless important roles were स्टिल उसके, सहित `` the लापरवाह, alcoholic, mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The Misfits, the title role in Huston 's, and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his career, three for बेहतरीन कर्ता और एक लिये बेहतरीन supporting Actor.
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly लागू to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान जिससे प्रारंभ as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
This resulted in an international military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other उग्रवादी संगठन.
The United Kingdom and many other नाटो और non-nato राष्ट्र participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was first used by us अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on 20 September 2001.
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to signify a वैश्विक सैन्य, राजनैतिक, lawful, और conceptual struggle—targeting दोनो संगठन designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them.
It was typically used with a particular focus on उग्रवादी islamists, al-qaeda, और अन्य jihadi groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency आपरेशन ), it is स्टिल commonly प्रयुक्त by राजनेता, in the media and by some aspects of government officially, such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
German battleship schleswig-holstein, westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after उसके आगे पत्रिका थी detonated दौरान the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic मुद्दे, अनसुलझे मुद्दे, और resentments resulting इससे संसार युद्ध i और the interwar period in Europe, in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s.
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of युद्ध हैं generally समझा to be the 1939 आक्रमण of कैंडल by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan.
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the authoritarian सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in जर्मनी और by the नेतृत्व of the Kwantung Army in Japan.
World War II started after these आक्रामक क्रियाएँ यहूद मिले साथ an आधिकारिक घोषणा of war and/or armed resistance.
The following is a list of gods and अन्य दैवी और semi-divine figures from Greek mythology.
The list does not include creatures ; for ये, देखिए सूची of यूनानी पौराणिक creatures.
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi मोटर्स between 1969 and 2012.
The name was derived from the French word galant, अर्थ `` chivalrous ''.
There have been nine distinct generations, and संचयी बिक्री अभी exceed पाँच million.
It began as a compact sedan, लकिन over the कोर्स of इसके जीवन रै विकसित into a larger mid-size car.
Initial production was only based in Japan, but since 1994 the अमरीकी मार्केट रै महरूम परोसा by वाहनों assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial रक्त दबाव, is the दबाव exerted by circulating रक्त upon the walls of blood vessels, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When used without further specification, `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial दबाव of the प्रणालीगत circulation.
During प्रत्येक धड़कन, blood pressure varies between a maximum ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure.
The blood pressure in the परिसंचरण is प्रधानतया due to the pumping action of the heart.
Differences in औसत रक्त दबाव हैं जिम्मेदार लिये blood flow from one location to another in the circulation.
The रेट of औसत रक्त प्रवाह depends on the प्रतिरोध to flow presented by the blood vessels.
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating रक्त चालें दूर इससे the दिल through धमनियों और capillaries due to viscous losses of energy.
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation, although सबसे of the पतन occurs साथ the small arteries and arterioles.
गम्भीरता affects रक्त दबाव via hydrostatic शक्तियां ( e.g., दौरान standing ) and valves in veins, breathing, and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles also influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा और is a माप of the pressure in the brachial artery, the major artery in the upper arm.
A person’s blood pressure is प्रायः expressed in शर्तें of the systolic दबाव over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ), for example 120/80.
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an officer of the state, लिये उदाहरण ) to unilaterally रोकें an आधिकारिक कार्रवाई, विशेषकर the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the United Nations Security Council, whose permanent members ( China, फ़्रांस, रूस, संयुक्त किंगडम, संयुक्त राज्य of America ) can block any resolution.
Or it can be limited, as in the legislative process of the United States, where a two-thirds vote in दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट may ओवरराइड a अध्यक्षीय वीटो of legislation.
A veto only gives power to stop changes, नहीं to अपनाना उन्हें ( मगर लिये the विरल `` amendatory veto '' ).
Thus a veto allows इसके होल्डर to protect the status quo.
The concept of a veto body originated with the रोमन consuls और tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could ब्लाक a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई ट्रिब्यून था the शक्ति to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the chemical यौगिक साथ the सूत्र.
It is a toxic gas with a pungent, तकलीफदेह महकते, कि is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds, उनके दहन generates गंधक डाइऑक्साइड जबतक the गंधक यौगिकों are removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the presence of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2, फ़ॉर्म h2so4, और यूँ एसिड बरसात.
Sulfur dioxide emissions हैं भी a precursor to अभिकण in the atmosphere.
Both of these impacts are cause for चिंता over the पर्यावरणीय impact of these fuels.
myasthenia ग्रेविस ( इससे यूनानी μύς `` मांसपेशी '', `` कमज़ोरी '', और `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an autoimmune disorder, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन, inhibiting the excitatory प्रभाव of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, और, in selected cases, thymectomy.
the बीमारी incidence is 3–30 cases per million per year and rising as a result of increased awareness.
MG must be distinguished from जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes कि can present similar symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments.
परावर्तक मुड़ nematic liquid crystal display.
Polarizing filter फिल्मी साथ a लंबवत अक्ष to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate साथ ito electrodes.
The shapes of these electrodes will determine the आकार कि होगा appear जब the एलसीडी is turned ON.
Vertical ridges etched on the सतह हैं चिकना.
मुड़ nematic liquid crystal.
Glass substrate with आम एलेक्ट्रोड फिल्मी ( ito ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the horizontal filter.
polarizing फिल्टर फिल्मी with a horizontal axis to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to भेजें लाइट वापस to viewer.
( In a backlit एलसीडी, इस परत is replaced साथ a light source. )
A liquid-crystal प्रदर्शक ( एलसीडी ) is a चपटा फलक प्रदर्शक, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक visual display, or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do नहीं emit light directly.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or फिक्स्ड बिंब जिससे can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा, such as preset words, digits, and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock.
They use the same basic technology, except that arbitrary images are made up of a large number of small पिक्सेल, जबकि अन्य प्रदर्शक have larger elements.
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications सहित कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर, टेलीविज़न, instrument panels, aircraft cockpit displays, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as video players, gaming डिवाइस, घड़ियाँ, घड़ियाँ, calculators, और telephones, और have replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब ( CRT ) displays in most applications.
They are available in a wider range of screen sizes than CRT and plasma displays, and since they do not use phosphors, वे do नहीं suffer चित्र burn-in.
LCDs are, however, susceptible to चित्र हठ.
the एलसीडी स्क्रीन is अधिक उर्जा efficient and can be disposed of more safely than a CRT.
Its low electrical power खपत enables it to be used in battery -powered electronic equipment.
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of segments filled with द्रव crystals और arrayed in सामने of a लाइट सोर्स ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome.
Liquid crystals were पहला खोजा in 1888.
By 2008, worldwide sales of televisions with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of crt इकाई ; the crt became obsolete लिये most purposes.
The borgata होटल कसीनो और स्पा is a लक्ज़री होटल, कसीनो, और spa in Atlantic City, New Jersey, United States.
It is स्वामित्व by मरीना ज़िला विकास, a संयुक्त venture between Boyd Gaming and a divesture trust established by MGM Resorts International.
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel सुविधाएँ 2,002 कक्ष और is the largest hotel in New Jersey.
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las vegas-style megaresort और is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City.
A bottle of high potency b-complex विटामिन संपूरक pills.
A vitamin ( or ) is an सशुल्क यौगिक जरूरी by an सजीव as a vital nutrient in limited amounts.
An organic chemical compound ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from the diet.
Thus, the पद is सशर्त दोनो on the circumstances and on the particular organism.
लिये उदाहरण, एस्कॉर्बिक एसिड ( विटामिन c ) is a विटामिन लिये इंसानो, लकिन not for most other animals, and biotin and vitamin D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
By convention, the term vitamin includes neither other अनिवार्य nutrients, ऐसे as dietary खनिज, अनिवार्य वसीय acids, or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often.
Thirteen vitamins are universally पहचाना at उपस्थित.
Vitamins are वर्गीकृत by उनके biological and chemical activity, not their structure.
Thus, each `` vitamin '' refers to a number of vitamer compounds that all show the biological कार्यकलाप संबद्ध साथ a particular vitamin.
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` जेनेरिक वर्णनकर्ता '' शीर्षक, ऐसे as `` विटामिन a ``, जिससे शामिल the यौगिकों retinal, retinol, and four known carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the vitamin in the body, and are sometimes inter-convertible to एक another, as खूब.
Vitamins have diverse biochemical कृत्यों.
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism ( such as विटामिन d ), or regulators of कोशिका और ऊतक विकास and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ).
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin E and sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B जटिल विटामिन ) फलन as precursors लिये एंजाइम cofactors, that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism.
In this role, vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic समूह : लिये उदाहरण, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable अणुओं that function to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules.
For example, folic acid may carry methyl, formyl, और methylene समूह in the cell.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins ' best-known फलन, the अन्य विटामिन कृत्यों हैं बराबर महत्वपूर्ण.
Until the mid-1930s, when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold, vitamins were obtained solely through food सेवन, और परिवर्तन in आहार ( जिससे, लिये उदाहरण, could occur दौरान a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested.
However, vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary और खाना पूरक और एडिटिव, since the middle of the 20th century.
World Muslim population by percentage ( Pew Research बीच, 2009 )
World Muslim जनसांख्यिकी in लाखो
Islam is the world 's दूसरी largest धर्म बाद Christianity.
According to a 2010 study, Islam has 1.62 billion adherents, making up over 23 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी.
Islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East, in सहेल, in the सींग of अफ़्रीकी और उत्तरी Africa, and in some parts of Asia.
Large communities of Muslims are also मिला in चीन, the balkans, and Russia.
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe, for instance, Islam is the second largest religion बाद christianity, जहाँ it represents 6 % of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the Pew शोध बीच in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries.
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in South और southeast एशिया, साथ over 1 billion adherents.
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia, home to 12.7 % of the संसार 's मुसलमान, followed by पाकिस्तानी ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of मुसलमान सजीव in अरब countries.
In the Middle East, the non-Arab countries of Turkey and Iran are the largest muslim-majority देशों ; in अफ़्रीकी, मिश्र और सीरियल have the most populous Muslim communities.
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 and released January 2011 found that there हैं 1.62 अरब मुसलमान around the world.
The study found more Muslims in the United Kingdom than in लेबनान और अधिक in चीन than in Syria.
Rhode Island ( or ), officially the State of Rhode Island and विधाता बागानों, is a राज्य in the नई इंग्लैण्ड प्रदेश of the United States.
Rhode Island is the smallest in क्षेत्रफल, the eighth least populous, but the second most densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey.
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to the north and east, and it shares a जल boundary साथ नई यॉर्क 's long द्वीप to the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
Rhode Island was the first of the 13 original colonies to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे अंग्रेजों नियम, declaring itself independent on May 4, 1776, two months before any other colony.
The State was also the last of the तेरह असली colonies to ratify the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean State '', a reference to the State 's geography, since Rhode Island has अनेक विशाल bays और inlets कि राशि to परिचय 14 % of इसके कुल area.
Its land area is, but its total area is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात, स्तिथ भीतर the अमीर of the same name.
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf on the arabian प्रायद्वीप और is एक of the seven emirates that make up the country.
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest जमीन territory by क्षेत्रफल ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi.
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, the नेशनल पूंजी, हैं the तभी दो अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over नाजुक matters of national importance in the country 's legislature.
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state और, in कुछ मामले, the UAE as a whole has been described as 'Dubai '.
The earliest mention of Dubai is in 1095 AD, और the earliest अंकित उपनिवेश in the प्रदेश तिथियाँ इससे 1799.
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of his tribe of the Bani Yas, जीना in कया थी तब the दूसरी सऊदी राज्य और अभी भाग of सऊदी अरब, to follow उसे to the दुबई क्रीक by the abu falasa गोत्र of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the tribe 's control when the संयुक्त किंगडम assumed सुरक्षा of the sheikhdom in 1892 और joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब Emirates upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate.
Its strategic geographic location made the town an important trading hub and by the beginning of the 20th century, दुबई थी already an महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रीय port.
Today, दुबई रै उभरा as a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city and a business and cultural hub of the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's economy was historically निर्मित on the आयल उद्योग, the अमीर 's western-style मॉडल of कारोबार ड्राइव इसके अर्थव्यवस्था साथ the प्रमुख revenues अभी coming from tourism, real estate, and financial services.
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many innovative विशाल निर्माण प्रोजेक्ट और खेल events.
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings, such as the world 's tallest Burj Khalifa, in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands, होटल, और कुछ of the largest खरीदारी malls in the region and the world.
This increased attention has also highlighted labor and human rights issues concerning the city 's largely दक्षिण एशियाई सशुल्क workforce.
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम of the विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
However, दुबई रै बना a स्थिर और क्रमिक रिकवरी with help coming from neighboring emirates.
The handful of new projects that are in the pipeline have महरूम समर्थ to सहायता दुबई रियल एस्टेट make a comeback.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd सबसे महंगी city in the world, and the most expensive city in the Middle East, surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has भी महरूम रेटेड as एक of the बेहतरीन स्थान to सजीव in the मध्य ईस्ट, including by US American global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a list of colleges और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. राज्य of इलिनोइस.
Surface of the Atlantic ocean बैठक the धरती 's ग्रहीय boundary layer and troposphere.
Waves on an समंदर coast.
This animation uses Earth science data from a किस्में of सेंसर on नासा धरती observing satellites to माप शारीरिक oceanography पैरामीटर्स ऐसे as ocean currents, ocean winds, sea surface height and sea surface temperature.
an समंदर ( ; the संसार समंदर of शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता ) is a body of saline water that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
In the context of Earth, it refers to one or all of the major divisions of the planet 's World Ocean – वे हैं, in descending अनुक्रम of क्षेत्रफल, the प्रशांत, अटलांटिक, भारतीय, Southern ( Antarctic ), and Arctic Oceans.
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '', but strictly speaking a sea is a body of saline जल ( संभवतः a प्रभाग of the संसार समंदर ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of खोलें द्रव जल ).
Approximately 72 % of the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline जल कि is customarily विभाजित into several principal oceans and smaller seas, with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In शर्तें of the जलमंडल of the Earth, the ocean contains 97 % of the Earth 's water.
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97 %, तभी 5 % of the समंदर as a पूरे on धरती रै महरूम छान.
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere, the world ocean is integral to सब ज्ञात जीवन, फ़ॉर्म भाग of the कार्बन साईकिल, और प्रभाव climate and weather patterns.
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion घन किलोमीटर ( 310 लाख cu mi ) साथ an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species, although much of the समंदर 's गहराइयों remain unexplored और it is अनुमानित कि over दो लाख marine species exist.
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown, but महासागर हैं believed to have formed in the hadean काल and may have been the impetus for the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial महासागर may be रचित of a चौड़ी range of elements and compounds.
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids हैं the झीलों of टाइटन, हालांकि वहीँ is प्रमाण for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System.
Early in their geologic histories, मंगल और शुक्र हैं theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the सतह of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल, हालांकि the जल on मंगल is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its जमने पाइंट, so कि जल might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice.
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf planets and प्राकृतिक satellites ; notably, the समंदर of यूरोपा is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth.
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are भी believed to possess द्रव वायुमंडलीय परतों of yet to be confirmed compositions.
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons, including सतह महासागर of द्रव जल within a circumstellar habitable zone.
Ocean planets are a काल्पनिक प्रकार of ग्रह साथ a surface completely covered with liquid.
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8, 1935 – अगस्त 16, 1977 ) थी an अमरीकी singer and actor.
A cultural icon, he is commonly known by the single name Elvis.
One of the सबसे लोकप्रिय संगीतकारों of the 20th सदी, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley स्थानांतरित to मेम्फिस, टेनेसी, साथ his family at the age of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working साथ सूर्य रिकॉर्ड मालिक sam phillips, जो चाही to लाओ the ध्वनि of african-american music to a wider audience.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black, Presley was the most महत्वपूर्ण popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker, who went on to मैनेज the सिंगर लिये over two decades.
Presley 's first RCA single, `` heartbreak होटल ``, released in January 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the अग्रणी फिगर of the newly popular sound of rock and roll with a series of network television appearances and chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of songs, many from African-American स्त्रोत, और उसके uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously popular—and controversial.
In November 1956, he made उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in प्रेम Me Tender.
Drafted into सैन्य सेवा in 1958, प्रेस्ली relaunched his recording career two years later with some of his most commercially successful work.
He staged few concerts however, and guided by Parker, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to बनाना हॉलीवुड फिल्मों और soundtrack albums, most of them critically derided.
In 1968, after seven years दूर इससे the स्टेज, he लौटे to सजीव प्रदर्शन in a मनाये वापसी टेलीविज़न खास कि led to an extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours.
In 1973 Presley staged the पहला कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via satellite, Aloha from Hawaii.
Prescription drug abuse severely deteriorated उसके स्वास्थ्य, और he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42.
Presley is regarded as one of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आंकड़े of 20th-century लोकप्रिय culture.
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide success encompassing many जाति, सहित देश, pop ballads, gospel, and blues.
He is the best-selling सोलो artist in the history of popular music.
Nominated for 14 competitive Grammys, he won तीन, और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी आजीवन Achievement Award at age 36.
He has been inducted into अनेक म्यूज़िक halls of fame.
A कांच of रूट beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally बना using the रूट of a sassafras संयंत्र ( or the छाल of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor.
रूट बियर, popularized in North America, comes in two forms : alcoholic and soft drink.
The historical root beer was analogous to छोटी बियर in कि the process provided a drink with a very low alcohol content.
Although जड़ें हैं प्रयुक्त as the सोर्स of अनेक soft drinks throughout the world, often different names are used.
Fluorescent minerals emit visible light when exposed to पराबैंगनी लाइट
Fluorescence is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित light or other electromagnetic radiation.
It is a form of संदीप्ति.
In most cases, the emitted light has a longer wavelength, और इसलिए निम्नतर energy, than the absorbed radiation.
however, जब the अवशोषित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण is तीव्र, it is संभावित लिये एक इलेक्ट्रॉन to absorb two photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of radiation having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted radiation may also be of the वही wavelength as the अवशोषित विकिरण, termed `` resonance fluorescence ''.
The सबसे striking उदाहरण of प्रतिदीप्ति occur जब the अवशोषित विकिरण is in the पराबैंगनी प्रदेश of the वर्णक्रम, and thus invisible to the human eye, and the emitted light is in the visible region.
प्रतिदीप्ति रै अनेक व्यावहारिक अनुप्रयोग, सहित mineralogy, gemology, रासायनिक सेंसर ( fluorescence spectroscopy ), fluorescent labelling, dyes, biological detectors, and, most commonly, fluorescent lamps.
अनौपचारिक लॉजिक, intuitively, refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a formal setting.
However, perhaps because of the अनौपचारिक in the शीर्षक, the precise परिभाषा of informal logic is a matter of some dispute.
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards, criteria, procedures for the analysis, निर्वचन, मूल्यांकन, आलोचना और निर्माण of argumentation. ''
This definition reflects what had been अव्यक्त in उनके अभ्यास और कया others were doing in their informal logic texts.
Informal लॉजिक is संबद्ध साथ ( अनौपचारिक ) fallacies, critical thinking, the Thinking Skills Movement and the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` अनौपचारिक लॉजिक '' कवर a `` संग्रहण of normative approaches to the पढ़ाई of तर्क in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, with the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression began in August of 1929, जब the संयुक्त राज्य economy first went into an economic recession.
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP, it was not until the Wall Street Crash of October, 1929 that the effects of a घटती अर्थव्यवस्था यहूद लगा, and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The मार्केट क्रैश चिह्नित the शुरूआत of a दशक of high unemployment, poverty, low profits, deflation, plunging farm incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.
हालांकि इसके कल्याणकारी हैं स्टिल अनिश्चित और विवादास्पद, the जाल प्रभाव was a sudden and general loss of confidence in the economic future.
The usual explanations include numerous factors, विशेषकर ऊँची उपभोक्ता कर्ज़, ill-regulated बाज़ार कि permitted overoptimistic लोन by banks and investors, and the lack of high-growth new industries, all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending, falling confidence, and lowered production.
Industries that suffered the most included construction, agriculture as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, शिपिंग, खनन, और लॉगिंग as खूब as टिकाऊ goods जैसे ऑटोमोबाइल और उपकरण that could be postponed.
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33 ; then came four years of बहुत रैपिड विकास जबतक 1937, जब the मंदी of 1937 brought वापस 1934 levels of unemployment.
The अवसाद caused प्रमुख राजनैतिक changes in America.
Three years into the depression, Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव to फ्रैंकलिन Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan, the New Deal, instituted unprecedented programs for relief, रिकवरी और सुधार, और brought परिचय a प्रमुख realignment of American politics.
The Depression also resulted in an increase of emigration of लोगों to अन्य देशों लिये the पहला समय in अमरीकी history.
For उदाहरण, कुछ आप्रवासियों गई वापस to उनके native countries, and some native US citizens went to Canada, Australia, and South Africa.
It also resulted in the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and the South to places such as कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the उत्तर, क्रमशः ( देखिए okies और the ग्रेट माइग्रेशन of अफ़्रीकी Americans ).
Racial तनाव भी increased दौरान इस time.
By the 1940s आव्रजन था returned back to normal, and emigration declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt, जो गई to आयरलैंड, as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes.
The memory of the अवसाद भी तराशा आधुनिक theories of अर्थशास्त्र और resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt with economic downturns, such as the use of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped modern अमरीकी साहित्य, resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels ऐसे as जॉन steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men ``.
The ग्रेट अवसाद of the 1930s प्रारंभ with the stock market crash of October 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental country, स्तिथ ज़्यादातर on आनातोलिया in पश्चिमी एशिया और on ईस्ट thrace in Southeastern Europe.
तुर्कों is bordered by आठ देशों : बुल्गारिया to the उत्तरपश्चिम ; यूनानियों to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया to the northeast ; Armenia, Iran and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean समुद्र is to the दक्षिण ; the ईजियन समुद्र is to the west ; and the Black Sea is to the north.
The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace और आनातोलिया ; वे भी पृथक यूरोपीय and Asia.
Turkey 's location at the crossroads of यूरोपीय और एशिया makes it a देश of significant geostrategic importance.
The country 's official language is Turkish, a Turkic language, which is बोला by लगभग 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks, who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the जनसांख्यिकी according to the World Factbook.
Kurds are the largest जातीय अल्पसंख्यक और, according to the वही सोर्स, क्रमांक around 18 % of the population while other ethnic minorities are estimated to be at 7–12 %.
The vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी is Muslim.
The area now called तुर्कों रै महरूम inhabited चूंकि the paleolithic, सहित various Ancient Anatolian civilizations and Thracian peoples.
After Alexander the Great 's conquest, the area was Hellenized, which continued with the रोमन नियम और the परिवर्तन into the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the प्रक्रम of turkification, जिससे थी greatly त्वरित by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk Sultanate of rûm शासित आनातोलिया जबतक the mongol आक्रमण in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th सदी, the उस्मानी beylik संयुक्त आनातोलिया और निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of Southeastern Europe, Western Asia and North Africa.
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its defeat in World War I, parts of it were occupied by the victorious allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues, organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they स्थापित the आधुनिक गणतंत्र of तुर्कों, साथ Atatürk as its first president.
Turkey is a democratic, secular, unitary, संवैधानिक गणतंत्र साथ a विविध cultural heritage.
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the परिषद of यूरोपीय, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
Turkey began full membership negotiations साथ the यूरोपीय संघ in 2005, having महरूम an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered close cultural, political and economic relations साथ the मध्य ईस्ट, काकेशस, the turkic राज्य of सेंट्रल एशिया and the African countries through membership in organisations such as the Turkic Council, Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing economy and diplomatic initiatives have led to इसके मान्यता as a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति.
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP and the 16th largest by खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as Whoopi Goldberg (, ( born November 13, 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne, अभिनेत्री, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made her film debut in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a nomination लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और जीती her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda mae भूरा, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला होने हैटी McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, the खिलाड़ी, बना in अमेरिका, कैसा Stella Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her भूमिकाएँ as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी, as टेरी Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash, and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
गोल्डबर्ग रै महरूम मनोनीत for 13 Emmy Awards for her work in television.
She was co-producer of the popular game show हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे 1998 to 2004.
She has been the मॉडरेटर of the दिन talk show The View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden Globes, a टोनी ( लिये उत्पादन, नहीं एक्टिंग ), और an Oscar.
In addition, Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award, four People 's चुनाव पुरस्कार, और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति.
She is one of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have जीती an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award.
Augusta is a consolidated city in the U.S. state of Georgia, located at the fall line of the Savannah River, at the सिर of इसके navigable portion.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the augusta– रिचमंड County population was 195,844 not counting the unconsolidated cities of Hephzibah and Blythe.
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877, बनाना it दोनो the second-largest नगर और the second-largest मैट्रो area in the state after Atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest नगर in the संयुक्त राज्य.
internationally, augusta is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये hosting The Masters Tournament in golf each spring.
A cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट disc which contains data.
The name is an acronym which stands for `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only memory ``.
Computers can पढ़ा cd-roms, लकिन can not write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute कंप्यूटर तन्त्र, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग, though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी, जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the स्वरूप of CD-ROMs.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats, the Yellow किताब, निर्मित by सोनी और फिलिप्स, थी the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to थाम कोई रूप of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986, and known colloquially as the चीलों ) हैं a professional ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois.
They are सदस्यों of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of the Western Conference of the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
They have जीती चार स्टेनली कप championships since their founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams, along with the Detroit Red Wings, मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens, टोरंटो मेपल leafs, बोस्टन bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the ब्लैकहॉक्स have निभाई उनके घर खेल at the संयुक्त Center after having spent 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium.
Lent celebrants carrying out a street बारात दौरान पावन सप्ताह.
The violet color is often associated with penance and detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in other कैथोलिक देशों, sometimes संबद्ध साथ mortification of the flesh.
granada, निकारागुआ.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical साल of अनेक ईसाई denominations, स्थायी लिये a काल of लगभग six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday.
In the general Latin-rite and most पश्चिमी denominations lent is लिया to चलाएं इससे Ash Wednesday to Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve.
In the Catholic Church, Lent lasts until Holy Thursday, जबकि अन्य denominations run until Easter Eve.
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the आस्तिक through दुआ, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
इसके संस्थागत purpose is heightened in the सालाना commemoration of पावन सप्ताह, marking the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus, which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on Good Friday, which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the faithful commit to fasting or giving up निश्चित प्रकार of luxuries as a रूप of penitence.
The स्टेशन of the क्रॉस, a devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the Cross and of his execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove पुष्प इससे उनके altars, जबकि crucifixes, धार्मिक statues, and other elaborate religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
in निश्चित परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक देशों, कुछ adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat.
In some countries, grand religious processions and सांस्कृतिक कस्टम हैं observed, और the वफादार attempt to विज़िट सात चर्च during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for forty days, in commemoration of the चालीस दिनों जिससे, according to the gospels of मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और ल्यूक, यीशु खर्च उपवास in the मरुस्थल पहले the beginning of his public ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
However, different ईसाई denominations गणना the forty days of Lent differently.
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; thus the period from Ash बुधवार जबतक ईस्टर consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded.
However in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर lent is अभी लिया to समाप्त on पावन गुरुवार rather than Easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, along साथ इसके परहेज़गारों कस्टम हैं observed by Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians, and Anglicans.
स्थान of chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned नगर of pripyat साथ Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned आवास blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a अनर्थकारी नाभिकीय दुर्घटना कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब rubles.
The आधिकारिक सोवियत casualty गिनती of 31 मौतों रै महरूम विवादित, और long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
In grammar, a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking क्रिया ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
In the former case, a renaming noun phrase such as a संज्ञा or सर्वनाम is पुकारा a predicative nominal.
an क्रियाशील following the copula और describing the subject is called a predicative adjective.
In either case the predicative complement in प्रभाव mirrors the subject.
Subject complements are used साथ a छोटी क्लास of क्रियाएँ पुकारा linking क्रियाएँ or copula, of which be is the most common.
Since copula are stative verbs, subject complements हैं नहीं प्रभावित by कोई कार्रवाई of the verb.
Subject complements are typically नहीं clause वितर्क, nor are they clause adjuncts.
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards, many significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम नियत.
This page only includes the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती by various artists.
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards, trustees पुरस्कार, तकनीकी पुरस्कार or Legend Awards.
the पेज however करता शामिल अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), better known by उसके स्टेज नाम एमिनेम ( stylized as eminǝm ) और by उसके alter अहंकार पतला छायादार, is an अमरीकी rapper, record producer, songwriter and actor.
Eminem, साथ साथ उसके सोलो करियर, is a सदस्य of उसके समूह d12, और भी एक half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
एमिनेम is एक of the best-selling artists in the world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s.
He has been listed and ranked as one of the greatest artists of all time by many magazines, सहित रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
The same पत्रिका घोषित him The King of Hip Hop.
सहित उसके कार्य साथ d12 और ख़राब meets दुष्ट, Eminem has achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
He has sold more than 100 million records worldwide, including 42 लाख ट्रैक्स और 49.1 लाख एल्बम in the United States.
As an भूमिगत rapper एमिनेम released his debut solo album, Infinite in 1996.
The album थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक failure.
He gained मुख्यधारा लोकप्रियता in 1999 after the release of his major-label debut album The Slim Shady LP.
The LP also earned Eminem his पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Rap Album.
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP, and The Eminem Show, also won Best Rap Album ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, बनाना एमिनेम the पहला कलाकार to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs.
This was followed by another स्टुडियो रिलीज in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem then गई on अंतराल after touring in 2005.
He released his first album in five सालो titled पतन, on may 15, 2009.
In 2010, एमिनेम released his seventh studio album Recovery.
Recovery was an international success and was named the बेहतरीन selling एल्बम of 2010 विश्वव्यापी, joining The Eminem Show, which was the best seller of 2002.
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery, giving उसे a कुल of 13 grammys in उसके career.
Eminem has opened other ventures, including उसके अपना रिकार्ड लेबल छायादार Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg.
He also रै उसके अपना रेडियो चैनल, Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio.
Eminem began an acting career in 2002, जब he स्ट्रक्चर in the हिप हॉप नाटक film 8 Mile.
He won the Academy Award for बेहतरीन असली सोंग, बनने the पहला रैप कलाकार ever to win the award.
He has also बना कैमियो दिखावे in the धो ( 2001 ), Funny People ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage.
The acre is a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल और u.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an American फ़ुटबॉल फ़ील्ड.
The acre is no longer commonly used, although a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, बर्मा और the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010, the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम, हालांकि is स्टिल प्रयुक्त in रियल एस्टेट descriptions ).
It is still used, to कुछ extent, in Canada.
The international symbol of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
The सबसे commonly used acre today is the international acre.
In the United States both the international acre और the थोड़ा अलग us सर्वेक्षण एकड़ are in use.
The most common use of the एकड़ is to measure tracts of land.
One international acre is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the मध्य आयु, an एकड़ थी the राशि of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's डिस्कवरी of the विधि of संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान led to अनेक new findings in the 19th century.
Joseph Proust 's विधि of definite proportions और John Dalton 's atomic theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that दहन शामिल ऑक्सीजन बल्कि than कया थी previously विचार to be phlogiston.
The law of conservation of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of which have mass ), the mass of the प्रणाली जरूर remain निरंतर over समय, as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if it is not added or removed.
hence, the मात्रा of mass is `` conserved '' over time.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor नष्ट, हालांकि it may be rearranged in स्पेस, or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be बदला in रूप, as लिये उदाहरण जब लाइट or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) कि दौरान कोई रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया, नाभिकीय reaction, or radioactive decay in an isolated system, the mass of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products.
The concept of mass conservation is widely प्रयुक्त in अनेक फ़ील्ड such as chemistry, mechanics, and fluid dynamics.
Historically, द्रव्यमान संरक्षण थी खोजा in रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये in the late 18th century, and was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed only for the high energies treated by the बाद refinements of आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, लकिन वरना remains उपयोगी और fear सटीक लिये सबसे रासायनिक calculations, even in modern practice.
In special relativity, needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is involved, the difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important, since संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान is सख्ती और perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called पृथक systems, i.e. those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment.
In this circumstance, the mass-energy equivalence प्रमेय राज्य that mass conservation is equivalent to total energy conservation, which is the first law of thermodynamics.
By contrast, for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e., one which is closed to exchanges of पदार्थ, लकिन खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा, ऐसे as heat and work, with the surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or output of non-material energy must change the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली in आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, हालांकि the बदलें is प्रायः छोटी, चूंकि relatively large amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ).
In special relativity, mass is not converted to उर्जा, चूंकि उर्जा in सब of इसके फ़ॉर्म सदा retains इसके समतुल्य राशि of द्रव्यमान throughout कोई transformation or translocation into, or out of, a system.
However, certain types of matter ( a different concept ) may be converted to उर्जा, so long as the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली is अपरिवर्तित in the process.
however, if ऐसे उर्जा is removed from systems, they must lose the mass that is associated with it.
In general relativity, mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of space is a complex concept, subject to different definitions, और neither द्रव्यमान nor उर्जा is as सख्ती और बस conserved as is the मामला in खास आपेक्षिकता and in Minkowski space.
For a चर्चा, see mass in general relativity.
A pig is any of the पशु in the genus सस, within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the घरेलू सुअर, इसके पूर्वज the wild boar, and several other wild relatives.
Young and small pigs are ज्ञात as piglets.
Pigs are omnivores and are अत्यधिक सोशल और बुद्धिमान animals.
8-inch, -inch, और -inch floppy disks
8-inch, -inch ( पूरा ऊँचाई ), and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` फ्लॉपी '' चुम्बकीय material, removed from its housing
A floppy disk, or diskette, is a disk storage medium composed of a disk of thin and flexible magnetic storage medium, sealed in a rectangular plastic carrier lined साथ कपड़ा कि removes धूल अणु.
They are read और लिखा by a फ्लॉपी disk drive ( FDD ).
Floppy disks, initially as मीडिया और बाद in और 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) आकार, यहूद a सर्वव्यापी form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the first decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be used as an external usb ड्राइव, लकिन ``, 8 ``, और non-standard ड्राइव could तभी be handled by old equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have some limited उपयोग, विशेषकर साथ विरासत औद्योगिक कंप्यूटर उपकरण, वे have महरूम superseded by आंकड़ा भंडार विधि साथ much वृहद क्षमता, ऐसे as usb फ्लैश ड्राइव, portable external hard disk drives, optical discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
an एनिमेटेड diagram of a cutter
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a प्रकार of fastball जिससे ब्रेक थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's glove side as it reaches home plate.
This पिच is कही between a स्लाइडर और a fastball, as it is usually thrown faster than a slider but with more motion than a typical fastball.
Some pitchers use a cutter as a way to prevent hitters from expecting their नियमित fastballs.
A common technique used to throw a कटर is to उपयोग a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand.
When a batter is able to hit a cutter pitch, it often results in soft contact and an easy out, due to the पिच 's गति keeping the बॉल दूर इससे the चमगादड़ 's मीठी spot.
The cutter is typically 2–5 किमी धीमा than a पिचर 's four-seam fastball.
in 2010, the औसत पिच वर्गीकृत as a कटर by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph.
`` What It Takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by अमरीकी hard rock band Aerosmith.
It was लिखा by स्टीवन टायलर, जो Perry, and Desmond Child.
It was released in 1990 as the तीसरा सिंगल इससे एरोस्मिथ 's critically and commercially successful 1989 album Pump.
In the video The Making of Pump, A & R man John Kalodner described the सोंग as `` a कलाकृति ''.
दौरान सजीव प्रदर्शन, टायलर गाती the पहला verse a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus.
The album version of the song is followed by an बेनाम छुपा track.
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing odysseus blinding polyphemus, मिला at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman मोज़ेक of ulysses in ट्यूनीशिया
Odysseus ( or ; Greek :, ), भी ज्ञात by the रोमन नाम Ulysses ( ; ), was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey.
Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer 's Iliad and other works in कि वही एपिक Cycle.
Husband of Penelope, father of Telemachus, and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea, odysseus is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके brilliance, छल, और versatility ( polytropos ), और is hence ज्ञात by the epithet odysseus the Cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning intelligence `` ).
He is most famous लिये the टेन eventful सालो he took to वापसी घर बाद the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy.
Erie is a Statutory Town in बोल्डर और वेल्ड काउंटी in the u.S. state of Colorado.
The population according to the 2010 census is 18,135 और थी अंकित as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The Town of Erie is located बस वेस्ट of i-25 लिये आसान अभिगम to i-70, डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport and Colorado 's entire Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles, extending from the उत्तर पक्ष of राज्य राजमार्ग 52 दक्षिण to State Highway 7, and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 minutes इससे डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, 25 minutes to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder.
The Board of Trustees serves as the विधान और शासी देह of the कस्बा of erie and is responsible for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the authority to adopt laws, ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town, and by ordinance may enter into contracts or intergovernmental agreements to furnish, प्राप्त सेवाएं or to provide for cooperative service delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the कस्बा व्यवस्थापक is the मुख्य ऑपरेटिंग और प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर नेतृत्व in the प्रशासन और execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board.
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the community to maintain a safe environment, prevent अपराधों और enforce the विधि, जबकि protecting the अधिकारों of all.
Erie Municipal Airport ( eik ) is स्वामित्व और संचालित by the कस्बा of erie और is रणनीतिक स्तिथ in the denver-boulder महानगर area on Colorado Highway 7, a little over three miles west of Interstate 25.
The main runway is कंक्रीट प्रशस्त और 4,700 feet long.
The is a home video खेल कंसोल उत्पादित by Sony Computer Entertainment.
It is the successor to the PlayStation 2, as part of the प्लेस्टेशन श्रेणी.
The प्लेस्टेशन 3 competes साथ microsoft 's Xbox 360 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
It was first released on November 11, 2006, in जापानी, साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय बाज़ार following shortly thereafter.
The console थी पहला officially घोषित at E3 2005.
Originally set for a spring 2006 रिलीज तिथि, it थी विलम्बित अनेक टाइम्स जबतक आखिरकार hitting stores at the end of the year.
It was the first and currently only console to उपयोग blu-ray डिस्क as इसके प्राथमिक storage medium.
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल, और इसके कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल और प्लेस्टेशन वीटा, in सितंबर 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim, was released.
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version, although it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे संगतता ( removed on बाद असली मॉडल ), लकिन notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design.
As of नवम्बर 4, 2012, 70 million PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide.
Its successor, प्लेस्टेशन 4, is set for a Q4 2013 release.
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11, 1904January 23, 1989 ), ज्ञात as साल्वाडोर dalí ( ), थी a prominent स्पेनी surrealist चित्रकार born in Figueres, Spain.
Dalí was a skilled draftsman, best known for the striking और विचित्र बिंब in उसके surrealist कार्य.
His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters.
His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, was समाप्त in 1931.
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film, sculpture, and photography, in सहयोग साथ a दायरा of कलाकारों in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` प्रेम of सबकुछ कि is gilded और excessive, my जुनून लिये लक्ज़री and my love of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '', claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors.
Dalí थी अत्यधिक कल्पनाशील, और also enjoyed indulging in unusual and grandiose behavior.
उसके eccentric manner और attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes drew more attention than his artwork, to the dismay of those who held his work in high esteem, and to the irritation of his critics.
पारस Plato by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture, using विधि कि हैं primarily विश्लेषणात्मक, नाजुक, or सट्टे, और having a significant historical element, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The मानवता शामिल प्राचीन और आधुनिक languages, literature, philosophy, religion, and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre.
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include history, anthropology, area studies, संचार अध्ययन, सांस्कृतिक अध्ययन, विधि, अर्थशास्त्र और भाषाविज्ञान.
Scholars working in the मानवता हैं sometimes वर्णित as `` humanists ''.
However, that term also describes the philosophical position of humanism, which some `` antihumanist `` विद्वानों in the humanities reject.
कुछ द्वितीयक स्कूलों प्रस्ताव मानवता वर्ग, प्रायः consisting of English literature, global studies, and art.
Human disciplines like history, cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which the experimental method करता नहीं लागू, और वे have अभिगम बजाय to the तुलनात्मक method and comparative research.
The 2005 ब्लू Room Christmas Tree
The White House Christmas Tree, also known as the Blue Room Christmas Tree, is the आधिकारिक अंदर क्रिसमस पेड़ at the निवास of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, the White House.
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( वहीँ हैं varying दावा as to the सटीक साल ) और चूंकि 1961 the पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग मोटिफ at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States.
The President of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the संघीय सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law, alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, नियामक, और न्यायिक अधिकारियों, और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, और to convene और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president, despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is अक्सर वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the चुनावी कॉलेज to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, for more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th और वर्तमान president.
On November 6, 2012, he थी re-elected और is scheduled to serve until January 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of organisms that provide data for perception.
The senses and their operation, classification, and theory are overlapping विषय पढ़ाई by a किस्में of फ़ील्ड, सबसे notably neuroscience, cognitive psychology ( or cognitive science ), and philosophy of perception.
The nervous system has a specific संवेदी प्रणाली or अंग, समर्पित to each sense.
इंसानो have a multitude of senses.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), hearing ( audioception ), taste ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), और टच ( tactioception ) हैं the पाँच traditionally पहचाना.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ), pain ( nociception ), balance ( equilibrioception ), acceleration ( kinesthesioception ), और विभिन्न आतंरिक stimuli ( e.g. the अलग chemoreceptors लिये detecting नमक और कार्बन dioxide concentrations in the blood ), only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some बहस, अग्रणी to कठिनाइयों in धमक कया exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to sense the संसार around them, with degrees of capability varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell, while some पशु may कमी एक or अधिक of the परंपरागत five senses.
कुछ पशु may भी intake and interpret sensory stimuli in very different ways.
Some species of animals are able to sense the world in a way that humans can not, with some species able to sense electrical और चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड, और detect जल दबाव और currents.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae साथ fangs कि inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids and रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica, and have become स्थापित in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications कि have महरूम प्रस्तावित चूंकि 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ इससे अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax and abdomen, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, spiders do नहीं have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the Mesothelae, spiders have the most centralized nervous प्रणालियों of सब arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs और बजाय extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to छह प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, आकार और the amount of sticky thread used.
It now appears कि the सर्पिल orb वेब may be एक of the earliest forms, and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल परिचय, लकिन ये पशु जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have been found in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे, और हैं बहुत similar to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी, ज़्यादातर preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have acute vision, और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in उनके चुनाव of tactics और क्षमता to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and पीस it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as वे do नहीं have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid होने खाया by the महिलाओं.
Males of most प्रजाति जीवित a few matings, limited mainly by their short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, each of जिससे may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care लिये उनके यंग, लिये उदाहरण by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of प्रजाति हैं सोशल, भवन सांप्रदायिक webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the widow मकड़ियों, to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing.
हालांकि सबसे मकड़ियों सजीव लिये at सबसे दो सालो, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, scientists are now researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength और लोच कि is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री, and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of सब्र, क्रूरता and creative powers.
Grey 's Anatomy is an American television medical drama that premiered on the American प्रसारण कम्पनी ( एबीसी ), as a mid-season बदलना on कूच 27, 2005.
The series has aired nine seasons, and focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and निवासियों as वे धीरे evolve into seasoned डॉक्टर, जबकि trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, who serves as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता, साथ साथ बेट्सी Beers, Mark Gordon, Krista Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
The series was created to be racially diverse, utilizing a color-blind ढलाई तकनीक.
It is primarily फिल्माया in Los Angeles, California.
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ), who originally is स्वीकृत into the रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital.
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ), साथ साथ dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ), dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R. Knight ), Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ), and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens ' departure, the hospital 's merger with Mercy West brings in Dr. Jackson एवेरी ( जेसी विलियम्स ) और dr. अप्रैल kepner ( सारा Drew ), in the sixth season.
The सर्जिकल wing is primarily पर्यवेक्षित by dr. रिचर्ड webber ( जेम्स Pickens, Jr. ), who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ), and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season, and is replaced by dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक स्मिथ ), जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान the पांचवां season, and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ), who departs at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ), who leaves the show at the end of the तीसरा ऋतु, in अनुक्रम to लॉन्च उसके अपना spin-off चिकित्सा नाटक निजी अभ्यास.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the second season, while the latter dies in the प्रीमियर of the नवीं ऋतु.
मेरेडिथ 's half-sister, dr. lexie Grey ( Chyler Leigh ), appears from season three and dies at the end of season eight.
Dr. एरिज़ोना रॉबिन्स ( जेसिका capshaw ) is given series regular status at the beginning of the sixth season.
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the कुंजी 18–49 जनसांख्यिकी.
previously among the overall top-ten रेटेड shows in the United States, Grey 's Anatomy has been well received by critics.
Considered an impact on culture, the series रै प्राप्त numerous पुरस्कार, और has also been included in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has उत्पादित अनेक specials, as खूब as वितरित all seasons to DVD, and released a collection of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy was नामित the fifth-highest आय earning show, in terms of advertising per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the series was renewed for a ninth season, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder characterized by a विश्लेषण of विचार processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
Common लक्षण शामिल auditory मति, paranoid or विचित्र delusions, or disorganized speech and thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of लक्षण typically occurs in यंग adulthood, with a global lifetime prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is based on observed बर्ताव और the रोगी 's reported experiences.
Genetics, early environment, neurobiology, और मनोवैज्ञानिक और सोशल प्रक्रियाओं appear to be important contributory factors ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current research is केन्द्रित on the भूमिका of neurobiology, हालांकि no single isolated organic cause has been found.
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a सिंगल विकार or a क्रमांक of अलहदा syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the पद इससे the यूनानी जड़ें skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to विभाजित '' ) और phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` दिमाग '' ), schizophrenia करता not imply a `` split personality '', or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception.
Rather, the term means a `` splitting of दिमागी कृत्यों '', क्युकी of the symptomatic presentation of the illness.
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic दवा, जिससे primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
Psychotherapy and वोकेशनल और सोशल पुनर्वास are also important in treatment.
In more serious cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, हालांकि हॉस्पिटल stays हैं अभी shorter और कम बारंबार than they once were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect संज्ञान, लकिन it भी प्रायः contributes to दीर्घकालिक समस्याएं with behavior and emotion.
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions, सहित प्रमुख अवसाद और चिंता विकार ; the आजीवन occurrence of पदार्थ उपयोग विकार is almost 50 %.
Social problems, such as long-term बेरोजगारी, poverty, and homelessness are common.
The average life प्रत्याशा of लोगों साथ the विकार is 12 to 15 सालो कम than those बगैर, the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ).
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) was the estranged husband और मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी Stratten, whom he murdered before killing himself the same day.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य.
The साहित्यिक इतिहास of gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these were used as source सामग्री लिये a संयुक्त एपिक in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th century BC और is titled बाद इसके incipit, shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer, twelve-tablet संस्करण have महरूम बरामद.
Some of the best copies were discovered in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a दोस्ती between gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, वे यात्रा to the देवदार Mountain to defeat Humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven, जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the देवताओं वाक्य enkidu to मौत.
The दूसरी हाफ of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of eternal जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking तुम होगा never find.
When the gods निर्मित man वे आवंटित to उसे मौत, but life they retained in their own keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the अक्कादी संस्करण of the एपिक.
nevertheless, gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया on बाद उसके मौत, क्युकी of his great building projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been translated into many different languages, and gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an सजीव जिनकी कोशिकाएं contain जटिल structures enclosed within membranes.
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart इससे prokaryotic कोशिकाएं is the केंद्रक, or नाभिकीय लिफाफा, भीतर जिससे the genetic material is carried.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which आता इससे the यूनानी ( eu, `` शुभ '' ) और ( karyon, `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ).
Most eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles ऐसे as mitochondria, chloroplasts और the golgi apparatus.
All large complex जीवों हैं eukaryotes, सहित animals, plants and fungi.
The group also शामिल अनेक एककोशिकीय organisms.
Cell division in eukaryotes is अलग इससे कि in जीवों without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated गुणसूत्रों, through आंदोलनों directed by microtubules.
There are दो प्रकार of division processes.
in समसूत्रण, एक कोशिका divides to produce two genetically identical cells.
In meiosis, which is required in sexual जनन, एक द्विगुणित कोशिका ( having दो उदाहरण of प्रत्येक chromosome, one from each parent ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes, and then two stages of cell division, resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ).
Each gamete has just one पूरक of गुणसूत्रों, प्रत्येक a अद्वितीय mix of the corresponding pair of parental chromosomes.
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, और so makes up एक of the तीन डोमेन of life.
The two other domains, Bacteria and Archaea, are prokaryotes और have none of the ऊपर features.
Eukaryotes represent a छोटा अल्पसंख्यक of सब जीना बाते ; even in a human body there are 10 times more microbes than human cells.
However, due to their much larger size their सामूहिक विश्वव्यापी बायोमास is अनुमानित at about equal to that of prokaryotes.
They are considered to have first developed लगभग 1.6–2.1 अरब years ago.
The use of Internet services or software with Internet अभिगम to defraud पीड़ितों or to वरना लो लाभ of उन्हें, लिये उदाहरण by stealing personal information, which can even lead to identity theft.
a बहुत आम रूप of अंतरजाल fraud is the distribution of rogue security software.
Internet services can be used to उपस्थित बेईमान solicitations to prospective पीड़ितों, to conduct बेईमान ट्रांजेक्शन, or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme.
Internet fraud can occur in गपशप कक्ष, ईमेल, संदेश boards, or on websites.
The International सुरक्षा सहायता फ़ोर्स ( isaf ) is a नाटो -led सुरक्षा मिशन in अफगानिस्तान कि was established by the United Nations Security Council in December 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
Its main purpose is to ट्रैन the अफगान नेशनल सुरक्षा शक्तियां ( ansf ) और assist अफगानिस्तान in पुनर्निर्माण key government institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding areas from the Taliban, al Qaeda and factional warlords, so as to allow लिये the स्थापना of the अफगान transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai.
In October 2003, the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF मिशन throughout अफगानिस्तान, और isaf subsequently विस्तारित the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been involved in increasingly more intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन in दक्षिणी और पूर्वी अफगानिस्तान.
Troop योगदानकर्ता शामिल इससे the संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त Kingdom, NATO member states and a number of other countries.
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly, with the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada sustaining the बहुमत of हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन, with other contributors sustaining significantly less.
As of जल्दी 2010, वहीँ यहूद at तनिक 700 सैन्य bases inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years.
About 400 of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त by american‐led NATO forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( इन ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant.
The name आता इससे `` कोका '' और the एल्कलॉएड suffix -ine, forming cocaine.
It is a उत्तेजक, an भूख suppressant, and a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, also ज्ञात as a ट्रिपल reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive because of इसके प्रभाव on the mesolimbic reward pathway.
नापसंद सबसे अणुओं, कोका रै pockets with both high hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency, violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better than अन्य psychoactive रसायन और may भी induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or वितरित कोका लिये non-medicinal और non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य in almost every country.
Whole beef tri-tip rump, roasted मीडियम rare
The tri-tip is a cut of beef from the नीचे sirloin primal cut.
It is a छोटी triangular muscle, usually 1.5 to 2.5 lbs. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef.
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris, भी पुकारा quadriceps extensor, a समूह of चार मांसपेशियां जिससे in फेरे insert in the patella, or knee cap of the animal.
Willmar is a city in, और the काउंटी सीट of, kandiyohi County, Minnesota, United States.
The population was 19,610 at the 2010 census.
willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal Service.
U.S. Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 और 40 हैं चार of the प्रमुख रूट in the city.
The Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( or Speaker of the House ) is the presiding officer of the chamber.
The office was established in 1789 by Article I, खण्ड 2 of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, जिससे राज्य in भाग, `` the हाउस of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker... ''
the वर्तमान स्पीकर is जॉन boehner, a Republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution does not require that the Speaker be a Member of कॉंग्रेस, लकिन no non-member रै कभी महरूम निर्वाचित to the office.
The Speaker is second in the United States अध्यक्षीय लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, बाद the वाइस अध्यक्ष and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments, in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the United States the Speaker of the House is a नेतृत्व स्थिति और the office-holder actively works to नियत the बहुमत party 's legislative agenda.
The स्पीकर प्रायः करता नहीं personally preside over debates, instead delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party.
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority राजनैतिक पार्टी, the स्पीकर भी performs प्रशासनिक और प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों, and represents his or her Congressional district.
A bicycle frame is the main component of a सायकिल, on to जिससे पहियों and other components are fitted.
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is based on the सुरक्षा सायकिल, और consists of two triangles, a main triangle and a paired rear triangle.
This is ज्ञात as the diamond frame.
Frames are required to be strong, stiff and light, which they do by combining अलग सामग्री और आकार.
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' model assumes no घर्षण or एयर resistance.
An exemplar animation of a pendulum प्रर्दशित the गति और त्वरण vectors
A pendulum is a weight suspended from a so कि it can झूले freely.
When a pendulum is विस्थापित बगलों इससे इसके resting equilibrium position, it is subject to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's द्रव्यमान कल्याणकारी it to oscillate परिचय the equilibrium position, swinging back and forth.
The time for one complete cycle, a बाएँ झूले और a सही झूले, is called the period.
a लोलक swings साथ a विशिष्ट period which depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping, and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping प्रौद्योगिकी जबतक the 1930s.
Pendulums हैं प्रयुक्त to विनियमित लोलक clocks, and are used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers.
Historically they were प्रयुक्त as gravimeters to माप the त्वरण of गम्भीरता in geophysical surveys, and even as a standard of length.
The word 'pendulum ' is नई लैटिन, इससे the लैटिन pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized गणितीय model of a pendulum.
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the समाप्त of a massless cord suspended from a, without friction.
When given an initial push, it होगा झूले वापस और forth at a निरंतर amplitude.
Real pendulums हैं विषय to घर्षण and air drag, so the amplitude of their swings declines.
The First Battle of Bull Run, also known as First Manassas ( the name used by Confederate शक्तियां ), थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21, 1861, in प्रिंस विलियम County, Virginia, near the city of Manassas.
It was the first major जमीन बैटल of the American Civil War.
Just months after the start of the युद्ध at फोर्ट sumter, the उत्तरी पब्लिक clamored लिये a कूच विरूद्ध the confederate पूंजी of Richmond, Virginia, which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led उसके unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the equally inexperienced Confederate Army of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction.
McDowell 's महत्वाकांक्षी योजना लिये a आश्चर्य पार्श्व आक्रमण on the confederate बाएँ थी poorly चलाया by उसके अधिकारियों और मेन ; nevertheless, the confederates, who had been planning to attack the Union left flank, found themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate सुदृढीकरण अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जोसेफ E. johnston arrived इससे the Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the course of the battle quickly changed.
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the Virginia सैन्य संस्थान, थामस J. जैक्सन, stood उनके ground and Jackson received his famous nickname, `` Stonewall Jackson ''.
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack, और as the संघ सैनिकों began withdrawing अंतर्गत आग, अनेक panicked और it turned into a rout as mcdowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many casualties, and realized the युद्ध थी going to be much longer और bloodier than either था anticipated.
Thunderstorm near Garajau, madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere, to the degree कि it is hot or ठंडा, गीला or शुष्क, शांत or stormy, साफ or cloudy.
Most weather phenomena occur in the क्षोभमण्डल, बस below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity, whereas climate is the पद लिये the औसत वायुमंडलीय शर्तें over longer periods of time.
When used without qualification, `` weather '' is समझा to be the मौसम of धरती.
Weather is चलित by air pressure ( temperature and moisture ) differences between one place and another.
These pressure and temperature मतभेद can occur due to the सूर्य कोण at कोई particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
The strong temperature contrast between ध्रुवीय और तीव्र एयर देता वृद्धि to the jet stream.
Weather systems in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, हैं caused by instabilities of the जेट स्ट्रीम flow.
क्युकी the धरती 's अक्ष is tilted सापेक्ष to इसके कक्षीय plane, sunlight is incident at different angles at different times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures usually range ±40 °c ( −40 °f to 100 °F ) annually.
Over हज़ारों of सालो, परिवर्तन in धरती 's कक्षा affect the राशि and distribution of solar energy received by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change.
सतह तापमान differences in turn cause pressure differences.
Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes due to मतभेद in compressional heating.
Weather forecasting is the अनुप्रयोग of विज्ञान and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location.
The atmosphere is a chaotic प्रणाली, so छोटी परिवर्तन to एक भाग of the प्रणाली can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole.
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history, and there is evidence कि इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे as कृषि और उद्योग रै inadvertently परिवर्धित मौसम पैटर्न.
Studying how the मौसम works on अन्य ग्रह रै महरूम helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth.
A famous landmark in the Solar System, Jupiter 's ग्रेट रेड स्पॉट, is an anticyclonic तूफ़ान ज्ञात to have existed for at least 300 years.
However, मौसम is नहीं सीमित to planetary bodies.
A star 's corona is constantly being lost to space, creating what is essentially a very thin माहौल throughout the सौर प्रणाली.
the गति of द्रव्यमान ejected from the Sun is known as the solar wind.
Katy Perry is an American singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara, California.
She signed with कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड.
Perry has released three studio albums, including her debut Christian effort Katy Hudson, एक of the लड़कों, और teenage Dream.
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive chart success of उसके डेब्यू सिंगल `` i चूमा a लड़की ``.
During her career, Perry has been मनोनीत लिये numerous प्रमुख म्यूज़िक awards, primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
The following is a list of sovereign राज्य और territories जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक language or language of government.
In 2012, there were 88 states in कुल ( 60 sovereign राज्य और 28 non-sovereign states ).
In many countries English is the प्रबल भाषा, लकिन करता not have official status.
In Australia, English is spoken by the vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी और is the तभी भाषा प्रयुक्त in सरकारी संस्थानों, but Australia does not have an official language.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States, though many राज्य और regions भीतर the u.S. do have English as an official language.
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official language of Canada ( along with French ), India ( along with Hindi and several other languages ), Ireland ( along with आयरिश ), और the फिलीपीन ( साथ साथ tagalog ).
English is the sole official language of the राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations and the Commonwealth Games.
English is one of the official languages of the United राष्ट्र, the यूरोपीय संघ और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Olympic Committee.
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see also अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य ), or of the संयुक्त राज्य, itself a former colony of the UK.
Notable exceptions include Rwanda, which was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea, which was an Italian colony where the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य spanned इसके कंट्रोल तभी in संसार युद्ध ii और shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
India 's भाषाई चित्र is complex.
According to the Constitution of India, `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated लिये the authoritative ग्रन्थ of सब संघीय कानून और परम् अदालत निर्णय and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament.
English is used almost exclusively लिये उच्चतर शिक्षा, कारोबार and science.
पाठ्यक्रम in बहुमत of the स्कूलों are taught exclusively in English.
English is extensively प्रयुक्त लिये प्रशासनिक purposes in India.
इण्डिया is the second-largest english-speaking country in the world by number of speakers, after the United States.
As such, many consider English to be the de facto आधिकारिक भाषा of India.
See आधिकारिक भाषाएं of India.
The भाषाई मेकअप of पाकिस्तानी is similarly complex.
While the national language is उर्दू, अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक language and used in business, government and law.
English is a अनिवार्य भाषा in schools.
All school पाठ्यक्रम हैं taught in English.
पाकिस्तानी is the 9th largest english-speaking country in the world by population.
दक्षिणी कोन (, ) is a भौगोलिक प्रदेश रचित of the southernmost areas of South America, south of the Tropic of Capricorn.
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil, in terms of political भूगोल the दक्षिणी कोन रै traditionally comprised अर्जेंटीना, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, bounded on the north by the states of ब्राज़ील, पैराग्वे, बोलीविया और पेरू, on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर, और दक्षिण to the जंक्शन between the प्रशांत और अटलांटिक महासागर, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life प्रत्याशा, the उच्चतम इंसान विकास अनुक्रमणिका of Latin America, high Standard of living, significant participation in the global markets and the emerging economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
For multi-event athletic प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings are sometimes आयोजित around सम्मेलन tables.
In a meeting, two or more people come together to discuss एक or अधिक विषय, प्रायः in a औपचारिक सेटिंग.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes पुकारा a विनियमन खेल, is a game that has progressed beyond the point at which it can be considered complete if necessary.
This is approximately the halfway पाइंट of the खेल.
In the case of inclement weather, any game which has reached this पाइंट may be रोका और shortened as needed, साथ the परिणाम होने फाइनल, और सब रिकॉर्ड and statistics counted.
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either considered a suspended game ( to be continued at a later date from the point of stoppage ), or is बस रद्द और replayed from the start.
( This depends on the नियम of each individual league. )
In either case, no statistics are counted जबतक the खेल becomes official.
Since most professional baseball games are nine innings long, the fifth inning is प्रयुक्त as the दहलीज लिये an आधिकारिक game.
If the visiting team is अग्रणी, or the खेल is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this point.
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the स्कोर, और theoretically होता नहीं need इसके हाफ of the पांचवां inning, तब 41⁄2 innings ( i.e., the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game.
The game is also considered official if the home team scores to take the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning, since the खेल होता समाप्त तत्काल if the वही बात happened in the ninth.
In nearly सब मामले, the `` आधिकारिक खेल '' औकात is used to determine whether a rain check will be honored for fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but does not reach the point of बनने आधिकारिक, प्रशंसक हैं हकदार to a नई ticket for the make-up game or ( in most cases ) any other available game of their choice.
If a game is halted after it becomes official, the game is बस shortened और no बरसात जाँच is given.
The `` आधिकारिक खेल '' statistic प्राप्त कुछ ध्यान दौरान the 1995 ऋतु, when Cal Ripken, Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive games played, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large numbers were hung on the side of the B & O गोदाम at oriole पार्क at camden गज to दिखाएँ the number of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a new number was unfurled during the fifth inning after each game had become official ( since the statistic would not have गिने if the खेल था महरूम रोका पहले that point ).
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans स्टेडियम in फिलाडेल्फिया in 2003, बुच मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in st. लुई in 2005, और the असली यांकी स्टेडियम और shea स्टेडियम in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2008 ) ; as प्रत्येक game became official, the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium.
A telephone number or phone number is a sequence of अंक प्रयुक्त to कॉल इससे एक टेलीफोन लकीर to another in a public switched telephone network.
When telephone numbers were invented, वे यहूद छोटी — as few as एक, two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator.
As phone systems have grown and interconnected to encompass the world, टेलीफोन संख्याएँ have become longer.
in जोड to telephones, वे अभी अभिगम अन्य डिवाइस, such as computers and fax machines.
The क्रमांक contains the सूचना जरुरी to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the telephone call.
Each ऐसे endpoint जरूर have a unique number within the public switched telephone network.
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal lines at least ) and therefore the क्रमांक of endpoints determines the जरुरी लंबाई of the टेलीफोन क्रमांक.
It is भी संभावित लिये प्रत्येक सदस्य to have a नियत of shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used.
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers are automatically translated to अद्वितीय टेलीफोन संख्याएँ पहले the कॉल can be connected.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China, Japan, South कोरियाई, ताईवान और श्री लंका ; कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; the संयुक्त किंगडम, आयरलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, कैंडल, सऊदी अरब, the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Macao, Bahrain, Qatar, Bangladesh, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, respectively. )
Many systems also allow काल्स भीतर a लोकल क्षेत्रफल to be बना without dialing the local area code.
For example, a phone number in North America will start with three numbers ( such as 661 ), which is the area code, followed by सात अंक विभाजित into भाग of तीन और चार ( ऐसे as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some areas now have mandatory ten-digit डायलिंग in प्लेस, भी लिये local calls.
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone networks ) are interconnected in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन संजाल, जहाँ the स्वरूप of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies कि the संपूर्ण क्रमांक चाहिए be 15 अंक or shorter, and begin with a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an area कोड or नगर कोड और the सदस्य क्रमांक, जिससे might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन क्रमांक in writing or print, starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code.
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone, the + must be replaced साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कॉल उपसर्ग चुनी by the country the call is being made from.
Some mobile phones allow the + to be डाला सीधे.
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's संबंधित सरकारी, either सीधे or by प्रायोजित संगठन ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ).
Before a telephone call is connected, the telephone क्रमांक जरूर be dialed by the calling party or Caller.
The called party might have equipment that presents कॉलर id पहले the call is answered.
A collection agency is a business कि pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals or businesses.
Most collection agencies operate as agents of creditors and collect debts लिये a शुल्क or प्रतिशत of the total amount owed.
There हैं अनेक प्रकार of collection agencies.
First-party agencies are oftentimes subsidiaries of the original कम्पनी the कर्ज़ is owed to.
Third-party agencies are separate companies contracted by a कम्पनी to collect debts on उनके behalf for a fee.
Debt buyers purchase the debt at a percentage of its value, तब attempt to collect it.
Each country has its own rules and regulations regarding them.
Cannabis flower साथ दृश्य trichomes
Cannabis, also known as मारिजुआना ( इससे the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ), और by अन्य names, is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) ; it is एक of 483 known compounds in the plant, including at least 84 other cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( CBG ).
This is a सूची of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल quarterbacks जो have प्रारंभ लिये the वॉशिंगटन redskins, as खूब as इसके पूर्ववर्तियों the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the National Football League ( NFL ).
The वॉशिंगटन redskins मताधिकार थी originally संस्थापित in Boston, Massachusetts as the Boston Braves, named after the local baseball franchise.
The name was बदला the following year to the Redskins.
In 1937, the मताधिकार स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks, two have महरूम inducted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen.
Robert Griffin iii 2012-present
Jason कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
चिह्नित burnell 2004-2007
Mark rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
सैमी baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ), popularly ज्ञात as डेल्टा फ़ोर्स, is one of the United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units.
It was formerly listed as the कॉम्बैट अनुप्रयोग समूह by the विभाग of रक्षा but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively समर्थित by usasoc, it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command.
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart, the Naval Special Warfare Development Group, हैं the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य 's प्राथमिक counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, सीधा कार्रवाई, और नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन, हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक बहुमुखी group capable of conducting many types of covert missions, including, but not limited to, hostage rescues and raids.
The Central प्रज्ञा एजेंसी 's अत्यधिक गुपचुप खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force.
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an अणु साथ a द्रव्यमान क्रमांक 4 कम और परमाणु क्रमांक 2 less.
Many other प्रकार of decays हैं संभावित.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a केंद्रक of an अस्थिर अणु loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing radiation.
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which includes the emission of energetic alpha particles, beta particles, and गामा किरणें — is माना रेडियोसक्रिय.
There are many different types of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय ( देखिए तालिका नीचे ).
A decay, or loss of energy, results when an atom with one type of nucleus, called the parent radionuclide, परिणत to an अणु साथ a केंद्रक in a अलग राज्य, or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons.
Either of these products is नामित the बेटी nuclide.
In some decays the जनक और बेटी हैं अलग रासायनिक तत्व, और यूँ the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( creation of an atom of a new element ).
The first decay processes to be खोजा यहूद अल्फा decay, beta decay, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs when the केंद्रक ejects an अल्फा कण ( हीलियम nucleus ).
This is the most आम प्रक्रम of emitting nucleons, लकिन in rarer प्रकार of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ).
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron और a प्रकार of न्यूट्रिनो, in a प्रक्रम कि परिवर्तन a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
The nucleus may capture an orbiting इलेक्ट्रॉन, converting a प्रोटॉन into a न्यूट्रॉन ( electron capture ).
All of ये प्रक्रियाओं परिणाम in nuclear transmutation.
By contrast, there exist radioactive decay प्रक्रियाओं कि do नहीं परिणाम in transmutation.
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a गामा रे in गामा क्षय, or प्रयुक्त to eject an कक्षीय इलेक्ट्रॉन by interaction with the excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion.
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, और इस परिणाम in a बदलें in an तत्व इससे one isotope to another.
One type of radioactive decay परिणाम in उत्पाद जिससे हैं not defined, but appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
इस क्षय is called spontaneous fission.
This decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally तीन ) छोटी बेटी nuclei, और प्रायः emits गामा किरणें, neutrons, or अन्य particles as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the level of single atoms, in that, according to quantum सिद्धान्त, it is नामुमकिन to भविष्यवाणी जब a particular अणु will decay.
However, the chance that a दिए अणु होगा क्षय is constant over time.
For a large number of atoms, the decay rate for the संग्रहण is computable इससे the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent बाल हटाना जिससे removes the hair from the root.
New hair होगा नहीं grow वापस in the previously waxed क्षेत्रफल लिये two to eight weeks, although some people will start to see regrowth in only a week.
Almost any क्षेत्रफल of the देह can be waxed, including eyebrows, face, bikini area, legs, arms, back, abdomen and feet.
वहीँ हैं अनेक प्रकार of वैक्सिंग उपयुक्त लिये removing unwanted hair.
स्ट्रिप वैक्सिंग is संपन्नता by spreading a wax thinly over the skin.
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed on the शीर्ष और ripped बंद the दिशा of बाल growth.
This removes the मोम साथ with the hair.
स्ट्रिप मोम can भी be बना at home using lemon juice, water, sugar and honey.
Hot waxing utilizes Hot मोम ( as opposed to strip wax ).
In this case, the मोम is लागू somewhat thickly and with no cloth or paper strips.
The wax then hardens when it cools, यूँ allowing the आसान हटाना by a therapist without the aid of cloths.
This waxing method is बहुत फायदेमंद to people who have sensitive skin.
Wall painting ( 1st सदी ad ) from Pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the civilization of Ancient Rome.
the पद refers to the संस्कृति of the रोमन गणतंत्र, बाद the Roman Empire, which, at its peak, covered an area from Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the Euphrates.
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome, its famed seven hills, and its स्मारकीय structures ऐसे as the flavian amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ), the Forum of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The city also था अनेक थिएटर, gymnasiums, और many taverns, baths, and brothels.
Throughout the territory अंतर्गत प्राचीन रोम 's कंट्रोल, आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged इससे बहुत modest घरों to देश villas, and in the capital city of Rome, there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill, from which the word palace is derived.
The vast majority of the population lived in the city center, packed into insulae ( अपार्टमेंट ब्लॉक ).
The नगर of रोम थी the largest megalopolis of कि समय, साथ a जनसांख्यिकी कि may खूब have exceeded one million people, with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's क्षेत्राधिकार जिया in innumerable शहरी centers, साथ जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000 और अनेक सैन्य settlements, a बहुत high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy, which had an estimated rate of शहरी of 32 %, the वही रेट of शहरी of इंग्लैण्ड in 1800.
Most Roman towns and cities had a फ़ोरम, मंदिरों and the same type of buildings, on a smaller scale, as found in Rome.
The large urban population required an endless supply of खाना जिससे थी a जटिल logistical कार्य, सहित acquiring, transporting, storing and distribution of food for Rome and other urban centers.
Italian farms supplied सब्जियां and fruits, but fish and meat were luxuries.
Aqueducts were built to bring water to urban centers और वाइन और आयल यहूद आयातित इससे Hispania, Gaul and Africa.
There was a very large amount of commerce between the provinces of the Roman Empire, since its परिवहन प्रौद्योगिकी थी बहुत कुशल.
The average costs of transport and the प्रौद्योगिकी यहूद comparable साथ 18th-century Europe.
The later city of Rome did not भरण the स्पेस भीतर इसके प्राचीन aurelian walls until after 1870.
Eighty प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of ancient Rome lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in cities and उनके estates यहूद बाएँ in the परवाह of फार्म managers.
The plight of rural slaves was generally worse than their counterparts working in शहरी वैभवशाली households.
To stimulate a उच्चतर मजदूर उत्पादकता सबसे landlords freed a large number of slaves and many received wages.
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one small farm hut in मिश्र, जबकि छह परिवारों स्वामित्व a single olive tree. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of जनसांख्यिकी to शहरी centers जबतक the जल्दी 2nd सदी, जब the urban population stopped growing and started to decline.
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC, private Greek संस्कृति थी increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades विरूद्ध the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists.
By the time of Augustus, cultured Greek household slaves taught the Roman young ( sometimes even the लड़कियों ) ; शेफ़, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
Greek sculptures सुशोभित hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in the विला, or यहूद imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery किताबे ascribed to apicius is essentially Greek.
Roman writers disdained Latin for a संस्कारी यूनानी स्टाइल.
Only in law and शासन थी the तिरछा प्रकृति of रोम 's accretive culture supreme.
Against this human पृष्ठभूमि, दोनो the शहरी और ग्रामीण सेटिंग, एक of इतिहास 's सबसे influential सभ्यताओं took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today.
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf, Jr. ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर golfer.
Glass बोतलों ( लिये खीरा slices ) on shipping pallets
A Soviet मेयोनेज़ jar
A modern `` फ्रेंच kilner '' jar
Glass production involves दो प्रमुख विधि – the फ्लैश glass process, which produces sheet glass, and glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers.
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in weather, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the plane of revolution.
In temperate और ध्रुवीय regions, the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct sunlight क्युकी the गोलार्ध चेहरों the सूर्य.
The same is true of the southern गोलार्ध in नवम्बर, दिसम्बर and January.
It is the झुकाव of the धरती कि कल्याणकारी the सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, जुलाई और अगस्त हैं the hottest महीने in the northern hemisphere and December, January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally four calendar -based सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three सीज़न ; the बरसात ( or गीला, or मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क season, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some भाग of the संसार, खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological seasons
The four calendar seasons, चित्रित in an प्राचीन रोमन मोज़ेक from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14, 1861 ) थी the बमबारी और surrender of Fort Sumter, near Charleston, South Carolina, that started the American Civil War.
Following declarations of secession by सात दक्षिणी राज्य, दक्षिण कैरोलिना मांगे कि the U.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously moved his small command from the indefensible Fort Moultrie on सुलीवान 's द्वीप to फोर्ट sumter, a substantial किला controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
an attempt by u.S. अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant ship Star of the West, failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9, 1861.
South कैरोलिना अधिकारियों तब जब्त सब संघीय property in the Charleston area, except for Fort Sumter.
दौरान the जल्दी महीने of 1861, the हालात around Fort Sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In कूच, ब्रिगेडियर. gen. P. G. T. beauregard, the पहला सामान्य अधिकारी of the newly formed Confederate States of America, was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of batteries around चार्ल्सटन हार्बर aimed at फोर्ट sumter.
Conditions in the fort grew dire as the Union soldiers rushed to पूरा the संस्थापना of additional guns.
एंडरसन थी छोटी of men, food, and supplies.
The resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the प्रशासन of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम Lincoln.
He notified the राज्यपाल of दक्षिण कैरोलिना, फ्रांसिस W. pickens, कि he थी sending सप्लाई जहाजों, जिससे resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
Major Anderson refused to आत्मसमर्पण.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on अप्रैल 12, the Confederates bombarded the fort from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the Union garrison returned fire, they were significantly outgunned and, after 34 घंटों, प्रमुख एंडरसन सहमत to evacuate.
वहीँ थी no घाटा of जीवन on either पक्ष as a सीधा परिणाम of इस सगाई, although a gun explosion during the surrender ceremonies on April 14 caused two Union deaths.
Following the battle, there was फैली support इससे दोनो उत्तर and South for further military action.
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to दबाने the विद्रोह resulted in an अतिरिक्त चार दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
The सिविल युद्ध था begun.
3G, छोटी लिये तीसरा पीढी, is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology.
3G telecommunication networks support सेवाएं कि provide an सूचना ट्रांसफ़र रेट of at least 200 kbit/s.
However, many services advertised as 3g provide उच्चतर गति than the न्यूनतम तकनीकी आवश्यकताएँ for a 3G service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5G and 3.75g, भी provide मोबाईल ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of अनेक Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop computers.
3G finds अनुप्रयोग in बेतार आवाज़ telephony, mobile Internet access, fixed wireless Internet access, video calls and mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' लिखा on a वाइन glass tag
traditionally, बाद the दूल्हे breaks the glass, the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! ``.
A birthday cake, iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is प्रायः किया in इसराईल.
Here the phrase is लिखा in Hebrew cursive.
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '', यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; यहूदी : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to एक्स्प्रेस बधाई for a happy and significant occasion or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ).
The infection is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis, जिससे is generally apparent बाद many years.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis will go on to develop जिगर विफलता, जिगर cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact associated with intravenous drug use, poorly sterilized चिकित्सा उपकरण और transfusions.
An estimated 130–200 लाख लोगों worldwide are infected with.
The existence of ( originally `` non- a non- b hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s and proven in 1989.
only infects humans और chimpanzees.
The वायरस persists in the liver in about 85 % of those infected.
This persistent infection can be treated with medication : the मानक चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon and ribavirin, with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of लोगों treated are cured.
Those who develop cirrhosis or जिगर कर्कट may require a liver transplant.
is the अग्रणी कारण of liver transplantation, though the virus usually recurs after transplantation.
No vaccine विरूद्ध is available.
a लचीली बिता खाता ( fsa ), भी ज्ञात as a लचीली बिता व्यवस्था, is one of a number of tax-advantaged financial accounts that can be set up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States.
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of आय to अदा लिये योग्य खर्च as स्थापित in the cafeteria plan, most commonly for medical expenses but often for dependent care or other expenses.
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into an FSA is नहीं विषय to payroll कर, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by the समाप्त of the योजना साल हैं खोया to the कर्मचारी, ज्ञात as the `` use it or lose it '' rule.
The most common type of flexible spending खाता, the चिकित्सा व्यय fsa ( भी चिकित्सा fsa or health FSA ), is similar to a health savings account ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ).
However, while hsas और hras हैं लगभग exclusively प्रयुक्त as components of a consumer driven health care plan, medical FSAs are commonly offered with more traditional health plans as well.
In addition, निधि in a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता हैं नहीं खोया जब the योजना year is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper forms or an FSA debit card, also known as a Flexcard, may be used to access the खाता निधि.
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th सबसे extensive और the 17th most populous of the 50 United States.
Tennessee is bordered by केंटकी और वर्जिनिया to the उत्तर, North Carolina to the east, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern part of the राज्य, और the मिसिसिपी नदी फ़ॉर्म the state 's western border.
Tennessee 's capital and second largest नगर is नैशविले, जिससे रै a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the राज्य 's largest नगर, with a population of 652,050.
The state of टेनेसी is rooted in the watauga संघ, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians.
What is now Tennessee was initially part of North कैरोलिना, और बाद भाग of the दक्षिणपश्चिम Territory.
Tennessee was admitted to the संघ as the 16th राज्य on जून 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. सिविल युद्ध in 1861, और the पहला state to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers for the confederate फौज than कोई अन्य राज्य, और अधिक सैनिको लिये the Union Army than any other Southern state.
In the 20th century, Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian अर्थव्यवस्था to a अधिक diversified अर्थव्यवस्था, aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of ओक लकीरें थी स्थापित to हाउस the मैनहटन Project 's uranium enrichment facilities, helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms of American popular music, सहित चट्टान और फेंकें, ब्लूज़, देश, और rockabilly.
Beale Street in मेम्फिस is माना by अनेक to be the जन्मस्थान of the blues, with musicians such as W.C. Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909.
Memphis was also home to Sun Records, where musicians such as Elvis Presley, Isaac Hayes, Johnny Cash, Carl Perkins, जेरी ली लुईस, रॉय orbison, और चार्ली समृद्ध began उनके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर, and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music genre and the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped मेक नैशविले the बीच of the देश म्यूज़िक रिकॉर्डिंग industry.
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक : the मेम्फिस चट्टान n ' आत्मा संग्रहालय, the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय in नैशविले, और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly Hall of Fame, an ऑनलाइन साईट recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in जिससे टेनेसी played a crucial role, is based in Nashville.
Tennessee 's major industries शामिल कृषि, निर्माण, and tourism.
Poultry, soybeans, and cattle are the state 's प्राथमिक agricultural उत्पाद, and major manufacturing exports include chemicals, transportation equipment, and electrical equipment.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the nation 's most visited national park, is headquartered in the eastern part of the state, और a खण्ड of the एपलाशियन ट्रेल roughly फ़ॉलो the tennessee-north Carolina border.
Other प्रमुख पर्यटक आकर्षण शामिल the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम in चट्टानूगा, the sunsphere in knoxville, dollywood in कबूतर Forge, the Parthenon, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville, and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
One डिज़ाइन रूपांतर of a cock ring.
A cock ring is a रिंग कि can be लगाई around a man 's शिश्न, usually at the base, primarily to slow the flow of blood from the erect penile tissue, thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time.
Cock rings can be worn around बस the शिश्न or दोनो the शिश्न और scrotum, or just the scrotum alone, though this is usually called a testicle cuff.
Rings can be made of a variety of different materials, most commonly चमड़े, रबर, or silicone, हालांकि नायलॉन और मेटल हैं भी प्रयुक्त either as the main component or part of the closure.
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a Prince Albert piercing, a piercing of the शिश्न कि is प्रायः, हालांकि नहीं सदा, a metal ring.
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction they are known by various names ऐसे as `` स्तंभन ring '' and `` tension ring ''.
The headquarters of Major League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue, Midtown Manhattan, नई यॉर्क नगर, USA.
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional baseball league, consisting of टीमों कि खेल in the नेशनल लीग और the अमरीकी League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the कमिश्नर of बेसबॉल, बाद 100 सालो as पृथक legal entities.
MLB constitutes एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर sports leagues of the United States and Canada.
it is रचित of 30 teams — 29 in the United States and one in Canada.
Teams in MLB play 162 खेल प्रत्येक ऋतु over छह months ( April through September ).
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions जिससे तिथियाँ to 1903.
The संगठन oversees अनेक minor-league बेसबॉल लीग which operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs.
With the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बेसबॉल संघ, the league also manages the international World Baseball Classic tournament.
MLB has the highest season attendance of any sports लीग in the संसार साथ nearly 75 लाख spectators in 2012.
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state located on the Atlantic Coast in the mid-atlantic प्रदेश of the संयुक्त States.
It is bordered to the दक्षिण and west by Maryland, to the northeast by New Jersey, and to the north by Pennsylvania.
The state takes its name from Thomas West, 3rd Baron De la warr, an अंग्रेज़ी nobleman और वर्जिनिया 's पहला colonial governor, after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the delmarva प्रायद्वीप और is the दूसरी smallest, the छठे तनिक populous, लकिन the छठे most densely populated of the fifty United States.
Delaware is divided into तीन काउंटी.
From north to south, these three काउंटी हैं नई किला, केंट, and Sussex.
जबकि the दक्षिणी दो काउंटी have historically been predominantly agricultural, New Castle County has been more industrialized.
Before its coastline was explored by europeans in the 16th सदी, डेलावेयर थी inhabited by अनेक समूह of देशी अमेरिकी, including the Lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at zwaanendael, स्तिथ निकट the उपस्थित कस्बा of Lewes, in 1631.
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on December 7, 1787, became the first राज्य to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य, thereby becoming known as The First State.
Energy परिवर्तन in Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or उर्जा परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम of बदलना one form of energy to another.
in भौतिकी, the पद उर्जा describes the क्षमता to produce certain changes within a system, without regard to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy.
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting energy from them, as उर्जा is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved, according to the पहला law of thermodynamics.
According to special relativity, changes in the energy of systems will also coincide साथ परिवर्तन in the प्रणाली 's द्रव्यमान, और the कुल राशि of द्रव्यमान of a प्रणाली is a measure of its energy.
Energy in a system may be रूपांतरित so कि it resides in a अलग state, or a different type of energy.
Energy in many states may be used to do अनेक किस्में of शारीरिक कार्य.
Energy may be used in natural प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने, or else to provide some service to society ( such as heat, light, or motion ).
For example, an आतंरिक दहन इंजन converts the संभावित रासायनिक उर्जा in गैसोलीन और ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा, जिससे is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ).
A solar cell converts solar radiation into electrical energy that can then be प्रयुक्त to लाइट a bulb or power a computer.
The जेनेरिक नाम लिये a यंत्र जिससे converts energy from one form to another, is a transducer.
In general, most प्रकार of उर्जा, सहेजें लिये थर्मल energy, may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, such as when potential energy is converted to kinetic उर्जा as an ऑब्जेक्ट जलप्रपात in वैक्यूम, or जब it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to heat may also occurs with nearly पूर्ण दक्षता ( अनेक प्रकार of घर्षण do इस ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many available quantum states for a collection of अणु, जिससे हैं freely अनुमत to explore कोई राज्य of आवेग और स्थिति ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of energy distribution in such states, dictates that भविष्य राज्य of the प्रणाली जरूर be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution.
( There is no way, taking the universe as a पूरे, to collect energy into fewer states, once it has spread to them ).
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा, चूंकि थर्मल उर्जा in संतुलन at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
Such energy is sometimes माना `` degraded energy, '' because it is not entirely usable.
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, for this reason, thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the एन्ट्रॉपी ( even-ness or विकार ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased by अन्य अर्थात्, to compensate लिये the घटी in एन्ट्रॉपी associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content.
Otherwise, only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus, useful work ), since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower temperature, in such a way कि the बढ़ाएँ in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये इस प्रक्रम अधिक than compensates लिये the एन्ट्रॉपी घटी संबद्ध with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य clubs, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world, and one of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season.
The league was व्यवस्थित on नवम्बर 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, after the suspension of operations of its predecessor organization, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It प्रारंभ साथ चार टीमों और, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada, although the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into the संयुक्त States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the league resumed play under a नई सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल a सैलरी cap.
In 2009, the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, और टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी इससे परिचय 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL, over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have increased दोनो क्युकी of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
This is the complete list of the ratified and unratified amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the approval of the United States Congress.
twenty-seven amendments have महरूम ratified since the original signing of the Constitution, the first ten of which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights.
The procedure लिये amending the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is governed by Article V of the original text.
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस, but not submitted to the states.
Before an amendment can take effect, it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस or by a सम्मेलन ( ज्ञात as an आलेख v सम्मेलन ) called by two-thirds of the states, and ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof, the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
To date, no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states, and तभी once—in 1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of ratification been employed.
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय financial services corporation.
It is one of the largest परस्पर निधि और वित्तीय services groups in the world.
It was founded in 1946 and serves उत्तर अमरीकी investors.
वफ़ादारी ventures is इसके venture capital arm.
वफ़ादारी अंतरराष्ट्रीय सीमित ( फील ), थी an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संबद्ध संस्थापित in 1969, serving most countries in the rest of the world.
In September 2011, FIL was rebranded as 'fidelity विश्वव्यापी निवेश '.
Fidelity Investments manages a विशाल परिवार of परस्पर निधि, provides निधि वितरण and investment advice services, as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement services, wealth management, securities execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.
जून 2006 थी the छठे month of that year.
It began on a Thursday और ended बाद 30 दिनों on a शुक्रवार the following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of human society और इसके origins, विकास, संगठन, और संस्थानों.
It is a social science जिससे उपयोग विभिन्न विधि of अनुभवजन्य छानबीन and critical analysis to develop a body of knowledge about human social activity, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied directly to सोशल नीति और welfare, जबकि others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject पदार्थ सीमाएँ इससे the सूक्ष्म स्तर of व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी और बातचीत to the macro level of systems and the social structure.
The traditional focuses of sociology include social stratification, social class, culture, race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, सोशल गतिशीलता, धर्म, secularization, विधि, और deviance.
As all spheres of human कार्यकलाप हैं प्रभावित by the interplay between सोशल ढांचा और व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी, समाजशास्त्र रै धीरे expanded its focus to further subjects, such as health, medical, military and penal institutions, the Internet, environmental sociology, political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge.
The range of सोशल वैज्ञानिक विधि रै also expanded.
सोशल शोधकर्ताओं चित्रण upon a variety of qualitative and quantitative techniques.
The linguistic and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, और philosophic approaches to the विश्लेषण of society.
Conversely, recent decades have देखी the वृद्धि of नई analytically, mathematically and computationally rigorous techniques, such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis.
Sociology should not be confused with various general social studies courses which bear little relation to समाजशास्त्रीय सिद्धान्त or सोशल विज्ञान शोध methodology.
थंडर is the sound caused by lightning.
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the श्रोता, थंडर can दायरा इससे a शार्प, loud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in pressure and temperature from lightning produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave, similar to a सोनिक बूम, जिससे produces the ध्वनि of थंडर, प्रायः referred to as a clap, क्रैक, or peal of thunder.
The distance of the lightning can be calculated by the श्रोता आधारित on the समय अंतराल इससे जब the बिजली is seen to when the sound is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the major city and port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city of the autonomous जातियाँ of the Balearic Islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of majorca ) और ciutat ( नगर ) यहूद प्रयुक्त पहले the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca.
However, the आधिकारिक नाम थी mallorca, the same as the island.
It is situated on the south coast of the द्वीप on the खाड़ी of Palma.
As of the 2009 census, the population of the city of Palma proper was 401,270, and the population of the संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285, रैंकिंग as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain.
Almost हाफ of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of Majorca live in Palma.
The Cabrera Archipelago, though widely separated इससे पालमा उचित, is administratively माना भाग of the municipality.
इसके विमानक्षेत्र, बेटे सन्त Joan, serves over 22 million passengers each year.
The Marivent Palace was offered by the नगर to the तब प्रिंस जुआन कार्लोस i of स्पेन.
the रॉयल्स have चूंकि spent their summer holidays in Palma.
luthor redirects here.
For other uses, see लूथर ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional अक्षर, a supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, and as a high-status supervillain, has also come into conflict with बैटमैन और अन्य superheroes in the DC Universe.
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the character first appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( अप्रैल 1940 ).
luthor is वर्णित as `` a power-mad, दुष्ट scientist '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman, the foremost बाधा to achieving the विलेन 's megalomaniacal लक्ष्य.
Despite periodically wearing a संचालित बहि, luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual identity.
The character was originally depicted as a mad वैज्ञानिक जो, in the रग of गूदा novels, wreaks कहर on the world with his futuristic weaponry.
In his earliest दिखावे, luthor is दिखाया साथ a पूरा head of red hair.
Despite this, the character later became hairless as the परिणाम of an कलाकार 's mistake.
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations, revealing him to be a childhood friend of सुपरमैन 's जो खोया उसके बाल जब a आग नष्ट उसके प्रयोगशाला ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the अक्षर थी re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and white-collar criminal, even briefly serving as President of the United States.
In recent years, various writers have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona इससे the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th Greatest विलेन by जादूगर on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list.
IGN 's list of the शीर्ष 100 कॉमिक किताब खलनायक of सब Time ranked Luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक किताब आलोचक पीटर sanderson, एक of a few genre-crossing खलनायक जिनकी adventures लो प्लेस `` in a संसार in जिससे the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, Doctor Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit this description.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the जन्मदिवस of रेव. dr. मार्टिन लूथर किंग, Jr.
It is observed on the third Monday of जनवरी प्रत्येक साल, जिससे is around the time of King 's birthday, January 15.
The floating holiday is similar to छुट्टियाँ नियत अंतर्गत the वर्दी सोमवार अवकाश अधिनियम, हालांकि the अधिनियम predated the establishment of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day by 15 years.
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent सक्रियता in the सिविल अधिकारों गति, जिससे सफलतापूर्वक protested racial discrimination in federal and state law.
The campaign for a federal holiday in किंग 's सम्मान began जल्द after his assassination in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, and it थी पहला observed on जनवरी 20, 1986.
At first, some राज्य resisted observing the अवकाश as ऐसे, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays.
It was officially observed in सब 50 राज्य लिये the first time in 2000.
The कैमरा फोन समाधान allows instant sharing of pictures.
As it 's automatic and instant, the user does not have to उपयोग a केबल or removable मीडिया to connect to a personal computer.
A camera phone is a मोबाईल फोन जिससे is able to capture still photographs ( and usually video ).
Since early in the 21st century the बहुमत of मोबाईल phones in use are camera phones.
Most camera phones हैं simpler than पृथक digital cameras.
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller sensors सीमा उनके प्रदर्शन in ग़रीब lighting.
Lacking a physical शटर, सबसे have a long shutter lag.
Flash, where उपस्थित, is usually weak.
Optical जूम और तिपाई screws are rare.
Some also कमी a usb कनेक्शन, removable मेमोरी card, or other way of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages, जिससे लागू सबसे acutely in कम लाइट शर्तें and in any case have not inhibited their widespread use.
Most model lines improve in ये regards every year or two.
Some, such as the Droid Incredible only have a menu choice to start an अनुप्रयोग कार्यक्रम to activate the कैमरा.
Others, such as the BlackBerry Storm 2, Droid X, मोटोरोला v980 और नोकिया 5800 भी have a separate camera button for quickness and convenience.
Windows Phones can be configured to operate as a कैमरा even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble पृथक low-end डिजिटल कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे in रूप और to कुछ extent in सुविधाएँ और picture quality, and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
The principal advantages of कैमरा फोन हैं cost and compactness ; indeed for a user who carries a mobile phone anyway, the additional size and cost are negligible.
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile applications to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging और चित्र stitching.
A few high end phones can use their टच स्क्रीन to सीधा उनके कैमरा to फ़ोकस on a particular object in the field of view, giving even an inexperienced user a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus.
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring the dc कॉमिक्स character of Superman.
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time, and soon to be retiring, Superman editor, Julius Schwartz, the story was published in दो भाग, शुरूआत in सुपरमैन # 423 और समाप्ति in कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स # 583, दोनो प्रकाशित in सितंबर 1986.
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan, in उसके फाइनल प्रमुख योगदान to the सुपरमैन शीर्षक, और थी inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and his long history, which was being rebooted following the events of संकट on अनन्त earths, पहले उसके आधुनिक परिचय in the John Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long इतिहास of the अक्षर और to serve as a complete conclusion to his mythology.
The story is a फ़्रेम स्टोरी नियत टेन सालो बाद सुपरमैन थी पिछला देखी, जहाँ Lois Lane recounts the tale of the end of Superman 's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet.
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by his दुश्मनों, the पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन of उसके रहस्य पहचान of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him.
The story रै महरूम cited as एक of the बेहतरीन कहानियां of the अक्षर of Superman, and critics and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published.
It is used as an example of कैसा to बंद the long-time continuity of a comic book character.
The story 's legacy has endured with समान कहानियां लिखा as श्रद्धांजलि to it.
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of कल, और थी प्रयुक्त in the शीर्षक of another सुपरमैन.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in molsheim, फ़्रांस by bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the संसार, साथ a शीर्ष गति of.
The असली संस्करण रै a top speed of.
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven All साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the तीव्रतम roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
the veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी hartmut warkuss, और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of Volkswagen, with much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special विसंगतियाँ have महरूम उत्पादित.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the veyron 16.4 configurator application on the marque 's official website.
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in ईसाई आर्ट, as in इस 16th-century जुआन de juanes painting.
`` at the पिछला भोजन, on the रात्रि he was betrayed, our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body and Blood. ''
( Catechism of the कैथोलिक Church 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, and the bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ, Lord और परमेश्वर, a घोषणा प्रतिपादित by the परिषद of ट्रेंट साथ an anathema विरूद्ध anyone जो अस्वीकृत इस.
Blessed sacrament is a devotional पद प्रयुक्त in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर to refer to the eucharistic species ( the Body and Blood of Christ ).
The following is a list of colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. राज्य of Louisiana.
a छोटी स्टोरी is a ब्रैड work of literature, usually written in narrative prose.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story has grown to encompass a देह of कार्य so विविध as to defy आसान characterization.
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named characters, and focuses on a self-contained घटना with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood.
In so doing, छोटी कहानियां मेक उपयोग of प्लाट, अनुनाद, और अन्य डायनेमिक components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel.
While the short story is largely पृथक इससे the अनोखा, लेखक of दोनो generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques.
छोटी कहानियां have no set length.
In terms of शब्द गिनती वहीँ is no official demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a novel.
Rather, the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in which a given story is produced and considered, so कि कया constitutes a छोटी स्टोरी may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the मांगे of the उपलब्धियाँ बाज़ार लिये प्रकाशन, और the एवोल्यूशन of the रूप seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines of its constituent houses.
The short story has been considered both an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works, and a crafted रूप in इसके अपना सही, एकत्रित साथ in किताबे of समान लंबाई, दाम, और distribution as novels.
Short story writers may define उनके works as भाग of the कलाकारी and personal expression of the form.
They may also attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form.
क्षेत्रफल कोड in Michigan
Area code 810 is the telephone area कोड सेवारत पूर्वी मिशिगन.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, भी ज्ञात as the आम raccoon, उत्तर American raccoon, northern raccoon and colloquially as coon, is a medium-sized mammal native to North America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid परिवार, having a देह लंबाई of and a body weight of.
Its grayish coat mostly consists of घना underfur which insulates against cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and its फेशियल मुखौटा, जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु in the mythology of अनेक Native American tribes.
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence, with studies प्रर्दशित कि वे हैं समर्थ to याद the समाधान to कार्य लिये up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is प्रायः nocturnal, consists of परिचय 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon हैं पतझड़ी और मिश्रित वनों, लकिन due to उनके adaptability वे have विस्तारित उनके दायरा to mountainous areas, coastal marshes, and urban areas, where some homeowners consider them to be pests.
As a परिणाम of escapes और deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century, raccoons are now also distributed across the European mainland, the Caucasus region and Japan.
Though previously thought to be solitary, there is now प्रमाण कि raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior.
Related females often share a common area, while unrelated males live together in groups of up to four animals to maintain their positions against foreign males during the mating season, and अन्य संभावित आक्रमणकारियों.
Home दायरा आकार vary anywhere इससे 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 acres ) for females in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
After a gestation period of about 65 days, दो to पाँच यंग, ज्ञात as `` kits '', are born in spring.
The kits are subsequently उठाया by उनके माँ until dispersion in late fall.
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years, their औसत जीवन प्रत्याशा in the जंगली is तभी 1.8 to 3.1 सालो.
In many areas, शिकार और vehicular injury are the two most common causes of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a अनर्थकारी परिमाण 7.0 mw भूकंप, साथ an उपरिकेंद्र near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ), approximately west of Port-au-Prince, Haiti 's capital.
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 local time ( 21:53 utc ) on Tuesday, 12 January 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or वृहद था been recorded.
An estimated three million people were प्रभावित by the भूकंप.
The highest reliable death count was अनुमानित at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates were उच्चतर.
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 residences and 30,000 वाणिज्यिक इमारतें था collapsed or यहूद severely damaged.
The भूकंप caused प्रमुख क्षति in port-au-prince, Jacmel and other settlements in the region.
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or destroyed, including the Presidential Palace, the National सभा भवन, the port-au-prince गिरजाघर, और the प्रमुख कारावास.
Among those killed were Archbishop of port-au-prince जोसेफ सर्ज miot, और opposition leader Micha Gaillard.
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ), located in the capital, collapsed, killing many, including the मिशन 's मुख्य, hédi annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian सहायता, pledging निधि और dispatching बचाव और medical teams, engineers and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, land, and समुद्र हस्तांतरण सुविधाएं, अस्पताल, और विद्युत संजाल था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त by the भूकंप, जिससे hampered बचाव और सहायता प्रयत्न ; confusion over who was in charge, air traffic congestion, and problems with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were overwhelmed with tens of हज़ारों of लाशें.
These था to be buried in mass graves.
as छुटकारा tailed बंद, आपूर्तियाँ, medical care and sanitation became priorities.
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors, and looting और विरल हिंसा यहूद observed.
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the relief operation was drawing to a बंद, और on the following दिन the haitian सरकारी officially called off the search for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking घोड़ा, originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स, और बाद in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात comedy produced by Filmways that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS from October 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister Ed, a palomino horse who could `` talk '', played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ), and his owner, an eccentric और enormously klutzy, yet दोस्ताना, वास्तु named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
much of the कार्यक्रम 's ह्यूमर stemmed इससे the फैक्ट Mister Ed would speak only to Wilbur, as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's अक्षर होने a विशाल klutz और inadvertently causing harm to himself or others.
According to the show 's producer, Arthur Lubin, Young was चुनी as the सीसे अक्षर क्युकी he `` just seemed like the sort of guy a horse would talk to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a coup by persuading the screen प्रतीक to अतिथि स्टार in एक एपीसोड.
In the United States, reruns aired on Nick at Nite इससे कूच 3, 1986, to फ़रवरी 1, 1993.
Sister station TV जमीन भी reran the दिखाएँ इससे 1996–98 और again from 2003-06.
The series is फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट प्रत्येक morning on इस tv, साथ साथ Highway Patrol, and The Patty Duke Show.
It is भी फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on Hallmark Movie Channel.
As of January 1, 2011, the first two seasons of the दिखाएँ हैं उपलब्धियाँ on Hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, जब the `` मुर्दे in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air ''.
The term `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at least two senses.
In the pre-tribulation view, a समूह of लोगों होगा be बाएँ पीछे on धरती after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the most common use of the term, especially among fundamentalist ईसाइयों और in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The other, older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the final resurrection generally, बगैर a विश्वास कि a समूह of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
This भेद is महत्वपूर्ण as कुछ प्रकार of christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in religious education, but might use the older and more general sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection.
There are many views among ईसाइयों regarding the समय of Christ 's return ( including whether it will occur in one event or two ), and various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4.
denominations ऐसे as रोमन catholics, Orthodox Christians, Lutheran Christians, and Reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection, when Christ returns a single time.
They do not believe that a समूह of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
pre-tribulation rapture धर्मशास्त्र थी विकसित in the 1830s by जॉन Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren, and popularized in the United States in the early 20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible.
Kris Nathan humphries ( born फ़रवरी 6, 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player with the Brooklyn Nets.
The Philistine cities of Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, ekron, और Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, Plištim ), Pleshet or Peleset, were a people who as part of the समुद्र peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी तटीय क्षेत्रफल of canaan at the शुरूआत of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ), most probably from the Aegean region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, ekron और gath, इससे wadi गाजा in the south to the Yarqon River in the north, but with no fixed border to the east.
The बाइबल paints उन्हें as the किंगडम of इसराईल 's most dangerous enemy.
Originating somewhere in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC, rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th सदी bc, of जिससे the ईजियन तत्व थी नहीं अधिक than हाफ the कुल, और शायद much less.
Nothing is known for certain about the original language or languages of the philistines, however वे यहूद नहीं भाग of the Semitic Canaanite population.
There is some limited प्रमाण in पक्ष of the assumption कि the philistines यहूद indo-european-speakers either इससे Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
Philistine-related words found in the बाइबल हैं नहीं सामीती, और can in कुछ मामले, साथ रिज़र्वेशन, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st Millennium BCE they had adopted the सामान्य canaanite भाषा of the region.
The Armed Services वोकेशनल योग्यता बैटरी ( asvab ) is a अनेक चुनाव परीक्षण, administered by the संयुक्त States Military Entrance Processing Command, used to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States armed forces.
It is often offered to American high school students when वे हैं in the 10th, 11th और 12th ग्रेड, हालांकि anyone योग्य for enlistment may take it.
Although the परीक्षण is administered by the सैन्य, it is not ( and never has been ) a requirement that a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or बयान of वित्तीय स्थिति is a सारांश of the वित्तीय balances of a sole proprietorship, a business partnership, a corporation or other business organization, such as an LLC or an LLP.
Assets, देनदारी और स्वामित्व इक्विटी हैं सूचीबद्ध as of a specific date, such as the end of its financial year.
A balance sheet is often वर्णित as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी 's financial condition ''.
Of the four basic financial कथन, the संतुलन चादर is the तभी बयान जिससे applies to a single point in time of a business ' calendar year.
A standard company balance sheet has तीन भाग : एसेट, देनदारी और ownership equity.
The main categories of एसेट हैं प्रायः सूचीबद्ध first, and typically in order of liquidity.
Assets are followed by the देनदारी.
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is ज्ञात as इक्विटी or the जाल एसेट or the जाल लायक or पूंजी of the कम्पनी and according to the accounting equation, net worth must equal assets minus liabilities.
Another way to dekh at the वही समीकरण is कि assets equals liabilities plus owner 's equity.
Looking at the equation in this way shows how एसेट यहूद financed : either by उधार धन ( देयता ) or by using the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ).
संतुलन चादरें हैं प्रायः प्रस्तुत साथ एसेट in एक खण्ड और देनदारी और जाल लायक in the अन्य खण्ड साथ the दो भाग `` balancing. ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the संपूर्ण बैंको संतुलन at the end of the period, plus any cash in hand.
However, अनेक व्यवसायों हैं नहीं सशुल्क तत्काल ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment.
In अन्य शब्द : व्यवसायों have एसेट और so वे can not, even if they want to, immediately turn these into cash at the end of each period.
Often, these businesses owe money to suppliers and to tax authorities, and the proprietors do not withdraw सब उनके असली पूंजी और profits at the समाप्त of each period.
In other शब्द व्यवसायों also have liabilities.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly known as the.17 HMR, is a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition कम्पनी hornady in 2002.
It descended from the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 मैग्नम मामला to लो a.17 कैलिबर ( 4.5 mm ) गोली, and it is more costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire cartridges.
commonly loaded साथ a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) bullet, it can deliver muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in schaumburg, इलिनोइस, in the संयुक्त States.
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North American League, which is नहीं संबद्ध साथ प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल, however, the team folded in March 2011, before they began play in the NAL.
From the 1999 season to the 2010 season, the Flyers played their घर खेल at alexian फ़ील्ड, निकट the एल्गिन O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly निभाई in थंडर खाड़ी, ओंटारियो, जहाँ वे यहूद ज्ञात as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks.
The टोली थी originally a member of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010.
On July 27, 2009, the Flyers played मेजबान to बैटल of the लिंगों ii, जिससे pitted the flyers against the National Pro Fastpitch Softball Champions, the Chicago Bandits.
Played by आधिकारिक सॉफ्टबॉल नियम, the खेल थी देखी by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, and was won by the Bandits 4-2.
in 1999, the flyers hired their first manager, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White sox, और former Chicago Cubs and White Sox player Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach.
During the early years of the franchise, Kittle did a series of TV commercials to promote the team, using the gimmick `` ma kittle. '' जहाँ he निभाई दोनो himself and his `` Ma. ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial ब्याज in the टोली as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly कामयाब converse विज्ञापन जहाँ Larry Johnson starred as both himself and `` Gramama. ''
at the समाप्त of the 2001 ऋतु, however, Kittle resigned from his managerial position, and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him.
In 2004, the Flyers made it to the Northern League चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी विरूद्ध the st. पॉल संतो.
Despite leading the five-game series 2-1, Schaumburg eventually lost the series.
In Game 5, Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed a खेल जीतना ग्रैंड स्लैम by st. पॉल infielder मार्क Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) लकिन never जीती the championship.
Some प्रसिद्ध खिलाड़ी जो निभाई लिये the flyers यहूद पूर्व ओकलैंड a 's outfielder Ozzie Canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी फिल्मी और थिएटर अभिनेत्री and former fashion model.
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in the early 1990s, then started working in टेलीविज़न, appearing in इंस्पेक्टर मोर्स, the अंग्रेजों mini-series स्कारलेट और ब्लैक, and the television film Advocates II.
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ), but उसके भेदन भूमिका आए in the फिल्मी कड़ी प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ), leading to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates, About a Boy, Constantine, The Fountain and The Constant Gardener, for which वो प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी ग्लोब और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं ' गिल्ड पुरस्कार for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle.
वो रै महरूम labelled an `` अंग्रेज़ी rose '' since her minor role in Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ).
Weisz भी works in theatre.
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 पुनरुद्धार of noël कायर 's खेल Design for Living, which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar गोदाम उत्पादन of टेनेसी विलियम्स ' एकाएक, पिछला गर्मियाँ, और their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire.
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter खेल अर्जित उसके the आलोचकों ' Circle Theatre Award for Best Actress.
She has recently played Evanora in oz the ग्रेट and Powerful.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining स्लेव राज्य जारी to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate States of America.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
the पूर्वी थिएटर was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old, and 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a रूप of ब्रैड in जिससे आलू replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour.
It is cooked in a variety of methods, including by baking it on a hot तवे or पण, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, and may have a किस्में of अन्य संघटक baked into it.
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly इससे रेसिपी to रेसिपी, साथ कुछ व्यंजनों having a majority of potato, and others having a majority of wheat flour.
Some recipes call for mashed आलू, साथ अन्य calling for dehydrated potato flakes.
It is available as a commercial product in many countries, with समान विसंगतियाँ in संघटक, cooking method, and other variables.
The Pacific Time Zone observes मानक समय by subtracting आठ घंटों इससे Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
The clock time in this zone is based on the औसत सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न west of the Greenwich Observatory.
During daylight छायांकन समय, its time offset is.
In the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, इस समय मण्डल is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ).
Specifically, it is Pacific Standard Time ( PST ) when observing मानक समय ( शीत ), और प्रशांत daylight समय ( पीडीटी ) जब observing daylight saving time ( summer ).
Most of Canada उपयोग daylight छायांकन समय.
In मैक्सिको the utc−8 समय मण्डल is ज्ञात as the उत्तरपश्चिम मण्डल, जिससे is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is लॉस एंजिल्स in कैलिफ़ोर्निया इससे यूएसए ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone, one hour behind the पहाड़ समय मण्डल और three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track cartridge, eight-track tape, or simply eight-track, is a चुम्बकीय टेप ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग प्रौद्योगिकी.
It was popular in the United States from the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s, but was relatively unknown in many European countries.
It was, however, बहुत लोकप्रिय in the United Kingdom during this period.
Stereo 8 थी निर्मित in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक lear of lear जेट निगम, साथ with Ampex, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Motorola, and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
It was a further विकास of the समान stereo-pak four-track cartridge created by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz.
A later quadraphonic version of the format was घोषित by आरसीए in अप्रैल 1970 और पहला known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ), referred to as रामेसेस the ग्रेट, थी the तीसरा मिश्र pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 bc ) of the उन्नीसवीं राजवंश.
He is प्रायः regarded as the greatest, most celebrated, and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire.
His successors और बाद उन्होंने called him the `` Great Ancestor. ''
Ramesses II led several military expeditions into the levant, re-asserting मिश्र control over Canaan.
He also led expeditions to the south, into Nubia, commemorated in inscriptions at beit el-wali and Gerf Hussein.
At age चौदह, रामेसेस थी नियुक्त Prince Regent by his father Seti I.
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt from 1279 bc to 1213 bc लिये 66 सालो और 2 महीने, according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records.
He was एकबार कहा to have जिया to be 99 सालो बूढ़ा, लकिन it is more likely that he died in his 90th or 91st year.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists today believe, he होता have assumed the सिंहासन on may 31, 1279 BC, based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27.
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the पहला आयोजित बाद तीस सालो of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल, और तब प्रत्येक तीन सालो ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh.
On his death, he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings ; his देह थी बाद स्थानांतरित to a royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
The early part of उसके शासनकाल थी केन्द्रित on भवन cities, temples and monuments.
He established the city of pi-ramesses in the nile डेल्टा as उसके नई पूंजी और प्रमुख आधार for his campaigns in Syria.
This city was built on the remains of the city of Avaris, the पूंजी of the हिक्सोस जब वे took over, और थी the स्थान of the main Temple of Set.
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources, इससे a लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of a भाग of रामेसेस 's सिंहासन नाम,, `` ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
The Texas Rangers are a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the Western Division of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी League.
Since, the Rangers have निभाई in रेंजरों ballpark in आर्लिंगटन in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's name is borrowed from the famous law प्रवर्तन एजेंसी of the वही नाम.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators, an expansion team awarded to Washington, D.C., after the city 's first ballclub, the original Washington सीनेटरों, स्थानांतरित to मिनेसोटा and became the Twins.
After the season, the new सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास, and debuted as the Rangers the following spring.
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason, all following प्रभाग championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers advanced past the Division Series for the पहला समय, defeating the tampa खाड़ी Rays.
Texas then brought home their first American League Pennant after धड़कन the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ in six games.
In the 2010 World Series, the franchise 's first, the रेंजरों गिरी to the सैन फ्रांसिस्को दिग्गज in पाँच games.
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to win a World Series game, the ह्यूस्टन एस्टर्स having महरूम swept in उनके 2005 संसार श्रेणी रूप.
They repeated as American League champions the following साल, तब खोया the 2011 संसार श्रेणी to the st. लुई Cardinals in seven games.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 कूच 44 bc ) थी a रोमन सामान्य, statesman, Consul and notable author of Latin prose.
He played a critical role in the events कि led to the निधन of the रोमन गणतंत्र और the rise of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a political गठबंधन कि थी to dominate रोमन politics for several years.
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics were opposed by the conservative elite भीतर the रोमन सीनेट, among उन्हें केटो the younger साथ the बारंबार support of Cicero.
Caesar 's conquest of gaul, समाप्त by 51 bc, विस्तारित Rome 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine.
Caesar became the पहला रोमन सामान्य to क्रॉस दोनो जब he निर्मित a सेतु आरपार the Rhine and conducted the first invasion of Britain.
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to eclipse the खड़ा of pompey, जो था realigned खुद with the Senate after the death of Crassus in 53 BC.
With the Gallic Wars concluded, the Senate ordered सीज़र to lay bas his military command and return to Rome.
Caesar refused, and marked his defiance in 49 BC by क्रासिंग the rubicon साथ a लीजन, leaving उसके प्रांत और illegally प्रवेश Roman territory under arms.
सिविल युद्ध resulted, इससे जिससे he उभरा as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
After assuming control of government, Caesar began a program of social and governmental reforms, सहित the सृष्टि of the जूलियन पंचांग.
He केंद्रीकृत the अफसरशाही of the Republic and was eventually proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved, and on the Ides of March ( 15 कूच ) 44 bc, सीज़र थी assassinated by a समूह of सीनेटरों led by मार्कस junius Brutus.
A new series of सिविल युद्धों broke आउट, and the constitutional government of the Republic was never restored.
Caesar 's adopted heir octavian, बाद ज्ञात as Augustus, rose to sole power, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his सैन्य अभियान, और इससे अन्य समकालीन स्त्रोत, मुख्यतः the अक्षर और भाषणों of सिसरो and the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of सीज़र by suetonius और प्लूटार्क हैं भी प्रमुख स्त्रोत.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the greatest सैन्य कमांडरों of history.
Linguistic map of सीरियल, कैमरून, and Benin.
Sign in अंग्रेज़ी, बाहर the University of Lagos
There हैं सैंकड़ों of भाषाएं spoken in Nigeria.
The major भाषाएं हैं योरूबा, हौसा, इग्बो, ईदो, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The आधिकारिक भाषा of सीरियल, अंग्रेज़ी, the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite, and is not widely spoken in rural areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole, encompassing three major African languages परिवारों : afroasiatic, nilo-saharan, और niger–congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen Tuum, which may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the वर्तमान language families.
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot, ( UK ) bird 's nest, bishop 's lace, and Queen Anne 's lace ( North America ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native to temperate regions of यूरोपीय, दक्षिणपश्चिम Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia.
Domesticated गाजर हैं cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United राज्य, जिनकी अस्तित्व और कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे the संवैधानिक power of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals, और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक शाखा of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In जोड, न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, are also sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, and their power derives from Article I instead.
See Article I and आलेख III tribunals.
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर, songwriter और actress.
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and more 20 लाख singles, bringing उसके कुल बिक्री to over 40 लाख रिकॉर्ड around the world.
Furtado first gained fame with her debut album, वाह, नेल !
, which spawned two successful singles, `` I 'm जैसे a बर्ड `` और `` फेरे बंद the लाइट ``. ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno Award for Single of the Year और a 2002 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन Performance.
In 2003, फ़र्टाडो released लोकगीत, जिससे उत्पादित three international singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) ``, `` Try `` and `` Força ``.
Three years later she released ढीला, a विश्वव्यापी commercial success.
The album spawned four number-one hits : `` Promiscuous ``, `` Maneater ``, `` कह it सही `` और `` सब शुभ बाते ( Come to an End ) ``.
After a three-year ब्रेक, वो released her first full-length Spanish album, Mi Plan, and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album.
In 2012, Furtado 's fourth English-language studio album, the स्पिरिट अविनाशी थी released.
Furtado 's work रै अर्जित उसके numerous पुरस्कार and accolades, including 2 Grammy Awards, 10 Juno Awards, 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame.
जीव of the रात्रि is the tenth studio album by Kiss.
it is the बैंड 's पिछला एल्बम लिये कासाब्लांका रिकॉर्ड, the only label the group had ever recorded for at that point.
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca संस्थापक और जल्दी चुंबन समर्थक neil bogart, जो था died of कर्कट दौरान the recording sessions.
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official सदस्य ( जबतक 1998 's psycho सर्कस ), और इसके पहला एल्बम साथ vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( Vincent would later be credited, but not featured pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
Touch is a निर्णायक अर्थात् of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying सीढ़ियाँ लिये visually impaired people.
The somatosensory system is a विविध संवेदी प्रणाली comprising the receptors और प्रसंस्करण केंद्रों to उपज the sensory modalities such as touch, temperature, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the स्किन और epithelia, skeletal मांसपेशियां, हड्डियों और joints, आतंरिक organs, and the cardiovascular system.
While touch is considered one of the five traditional senses, the छाप of टच is formed इससे अनेक modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial पद `` टच '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक होश '' to बेहतर प्रतिबिंबित the किस्में of mechanisms involved.
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses, with the समझना कि somesthesis शामिल टच, proprioception और ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception.
The system प्रतिक्रियाएँ to विविध stimuli using अलग receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of सूचना इससे the receptors गुजरता via संवेदी nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex.
The cortical homunculus was devised by वाइल्डर penfield.
At its simplest, the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार गुजरता to an area in the brain uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
The point-to-point mapping of the देह सतहों in the दिमाग is called a homunculus and is essential in the creation of a body image.
इस brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) map is not immutable, however.
Dramatic shifts can occur in जवाब to स्ट्रोक or injury.
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering plant species in the subfamily magnolioideae of the परिवार magnoliaceae.
It is नामित बाद फ्रेंच botanist Pierre Magnol.
Magnolia is an प्राचीन genus.
Appearing पहले मधुमक्खियों किया, the पुष्प evolved to encourage pollination by beetles.
To avoid damage इससे pollinating भृंग, the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough.
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million years पहले, और of पौधे identifiably belonging to the magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago.
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud is enclosed in a bract rather than in sepals ; the perianth भाग हैं undifferentiated और पुकारा tepals बल्कि than पृथक sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other flowering plants near the base of the flowering plant lineage such as Amborella और nymphaea ( as खूब as साथ अनेक अधिक recently derived plants such as Lilium ).
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution, with a main centre in ईस्ट और southeast एशिया और a द्वितीयक केन्द्र in eastern North America, Central America, the West Indies, and some species in South America.
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an इरविंग बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the version sung by bing crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of सब समय, साथ अनुमानित बिक्री in excess of 50 लाख copies worldwide.
Accounts vary as to जब और जहाँ Berlin wrote the song.
One story is that he wrote it in 1940, in गरम la quinta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, जबकि रहकर at the la quinta होटल, a frequent Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer Frank Capra, although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there.
He often stayed up all night writing — he told his सचिव, `` पकड़ें अपना कलम और लो bas इस song.
I just wrote the best song I 've कभी लिखा — हेक, i बस लिखा the बेहतरीन सोंग कि anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in जिससे भागीदार propel themselves आरपार snow-covered terrain using skis and poles.
The activity is popular in many places with large snowfields, primarily उत्तरी यूरोपीय, कनाडा, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is part of the nordic स्कीइंग खेल परिवार, जिससे शामिल स्की कूद, nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country स्कीइंग और स्की कूद ), biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of स्कीइंग कि सबसे resembles प्रागैतिहासिक skiing, particularly when done in the backcountry.
It is also related to telemark स्कीइंग.
A use tax in United States is पूरक to बिक्री कर जिससे अर्थात्, if तुम ख़रीदे a Taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax to vendor, you owe use tax.
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the state where the उत्पाद यहूद खपत or सेवाएं were rendered.
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you buy an item ( without paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially, उपयोग कर applies to कि स्थान जहाँ goods यहूद भंडारित.
Later on जब the फाइनल खपत takes प्लेस at कुछ अन्य स्थान, you are required to pay the differential of tax rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption.
This really means that you do n't have to अदा दोनो बिक्री कर as खूब as उपयोग Tax on one transaction.
It is only one or the other that you are required to pay on purchase of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't चार्ज कोई बिक्री कर on इसके चालान then it is the obligation of the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication.
उपयोग कर is generally चार्ज at the same tax rate of Sales Tax but in some states the tax rate is different.
Use tax is also termed as `` खपत कर '' or `` Consumer Use Tax ''.
a उपयोग कर is a प्रकार of excise tax levied in the United States by numerous state governments.
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing state for use, storage, or consumption in that state ( not लिये पुनर्विक्रय ), regardless of जहाँ the purchase took place.
If a resident of a state makes a purchase within his home state, full बिक्री कर is सशुल्क at the समय of the लेनदेन.
The use tax applies when a निवासी of the assessing राज्य purchases an मद कि is नहीं विषय to his home state 's sales tax.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering items through the mail, by phone, or over the अंतरजाल इससे अन्य राज्य.
The use tax is typically assessed at the वही रेट as the बिक्री कर कि होता have been owed ( if any ) had the same goods been purchased in the state of residence.
For example, a निवासी of मैसाचुसेट्स, साथ a 6.25 % `` बिक्री और उपयोग कर '' on निश्चित goods और सेवाएं, purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use, storage or other consumption in Massachusetts.
Under New Hampshire law, the New Hampshire vendor collects no बिक्री कर on the goods, लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user जरूर स्टिल अदा 6.25 % of the बिक्री दाम सीधे to the विभाग of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax.
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase, whatever कर यहूद सशुल्क by the क्रेता to कि राज्य can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent use, storage or consumption in Massachusetts.
With few अपवाद, no राज्य 's विक्रेता will charge the native state 's sales tax on goods shipped out of state, meaning all goods ordered from out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax.
The purchaser is therefore जरूरी to घोषित और अदा the उपयोग कर to उसके घर राज्य on these ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may make the use कर देय annually, लकिन कुछ राज्य आवश्यकता a मासिक payment.
For example, where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use in the state, Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form su-452 और भुगतान ) by the 20th दिन of the माह following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 लेट शुल्क, a 5 % दंड प्रति माह, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties.
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental agencies, purchases for resale in commerce, and purchases via `` कैज़ुअल बिक्री '' by individuals नहीं in the ordinary course of business.
Also note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the u.S. और अनेक have ever-changing सूचियाँ of विशिष्ट types of goods and services that are not taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the अंतरजाल लिये संस्थापना और उपयोग in मैसाचुसेट्स, regardless of where it originates.
However, the actual उपयोग of the वही तन्त्र डाउनलोड by a मैसाचुसेट्स resident to a server in another state remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered over the Internet ( such as downloaded तन्त्र or म्यूज़िक ), मगर voip जिससे is specifically पारिभाषित as taxable `` दूरसंचार services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in अरकंसास is taxable भी if ordered ऑनलाइन, मगर `` कस्टम तन्त्र लिये a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most cases, this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of its own location, remote sellers have to deal साथ the उपयोग कर कानून of अनेक jurisdictions—up to प्रत्येक us राज्य और मोहल्ले कि प्रकृती उन्हें, if the कम्पनी रै a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( ph ) is an बढ़ाएँ of रक्त दबाव in the pulmonary धमनी, pulmonary रग, or pulmonary capillaries, साथ ज्ञात as the फेफड़ों vasculature, अग्रणी to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and other symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased कसरत tolerance and heart failure.
It was first identified by dr. अर्नस्ट वोन romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent classification, it can be one of five different types : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or विविध.
सही
सही
Sanuk, a division of Deckers बाहरी निगम, is a जूते brand based in Southern California.
Sanuk, the Thai word for fun, was founded by Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया देशी जेफ़ kelley जब he प्रारंभ बनाना sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The first product created was green carpeted and entitled the `` Fur Real '' after एक दूकान मालिक पूछा if the विलक्षणता चन्दन थी `` For Real. ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through बुटीक स्टोर्स और नहीं the intended surf shops.
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in wire जाल, a तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण, और शैलियाँ बना आउट of a poncho material in a variety of colors.
Sanuk रै grown to शामिल स्टाइल विकल्प लिये मेन, women and youth and is distributed across the United States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe, Asia, South America and Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a धनात्मक जीवनशैली वकालत the slogan, `` Smile, Pass it on ! ``.
In computer science, array programming languages ( also known as vector or multidimensional languages ) generalize operations on scalars to लागू transparently to सदिश, matrices, and higher dimensional arrays.
सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस व्यापक विचार about data manipulation.
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to ढूँढें सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code.
APL, designed by केन iverson, थी the पहला प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा to provide array programming capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and not to arrays per se. Iverson 's योगदान to rigor और स्पष्टता थी संभवतः अधिक महत्वपूर्ण than the simple extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party, usually an व्यक्तिगत, pays a जीवन बीमे कम्पनी a सिंगल प्रीमियम that will later be distributed back to the insured party over time.
annuity अनुबंध traditionally provide a गारंटी वितरण of आय over time, such as via fixed payments, until the death of the person or persons named in the contract or until a final date, whichever comes first.
However, the majority of modern annuity ग्राहक उपयोग annuities तभी to accumulate funds free of income and capital gains taxes and to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
अध्यक्ष Barack Obama.
बराक ओबामा साथ उसके पहला परम् अदालत nominee, Sonia Sotomayor.
Following is a list of all United States संघीय न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष बराक Obama during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट, namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States, 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations हैं फिलहाल प्रतीक्षारत Senate action.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य Courts of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term.
ओबामा रै नहीं बना any recess appointments to the federal courts.
Obama has made two nominations to the United राज्य अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, an आलेख iii tribunal.
Obama भी designated बैठे न्यायधीश एमिली C. हेविट of the संयुक्त States Court of Federal Claims, an Article I court, to be Chief Judge of that court.
This is a list of airports in मैक्सिको, sorted by स्थान.
Mexico has about 1,834 एयरपोर्ट, रैंकिंग 2nd in क्रमांक of एयरपोर्ट in उत्तर America, and 3rd in the world.
Only प्रमुख नेशनल और International Airports are shown.
Agency debt also known as an एजेंसी बंध is a सुरक्षा, प्रायः a बंध, जारी by a u.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these एजेंसियों हैं समर्थित लकिन नहीं गारंटी by the us government since the agencies are private entities.
Some prominent issuers of ये प्रतिभूति हैं छात्र ऋण विपणन संघ ( sallie mae ), Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ).
Agency securities are usually exempt इससे राज्य और लोकल कर, but not federal tax.
Agency कर्ज़ is भी पुकारा an agency security.
The Susquehanna भाप इलेक्ट्रिक स्टेशन, a boiling water reactor.
The reactors are located inside the आयताकार containment इमारतें towards the सामने of the cooling towers.
Three nuclear-powered American warships, ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS bainbridge और uss long बीच साथ uss एंटरप्राइज़ the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members are spelling out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र E = mc2 on the flight deck.
The रूसी nuclear-powered हिमभंजक ns Yamal on a 1994 joint expedition with the NSF.
Nuclear power is the use of sustained नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन to generate heat and electricity.
Nuclear power plants provided परिचय 5.7 % of the संसार 's उर्जा और 13 % of the world 's electricity, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( हालांकि नहीं सब हैं producing विद्युत ), in 31 देशों.
In addition, there are approximately 140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in आपरेशन, संचालित by कुछ 180 रिएक्टरों.
There is an जारी बहस परिचय the उपयोग of nuclear energy.
Proponents, such as the World नाभिकीय संघ, the iaea और पर्यावरणविद लिये नाभिकीय उर्जा contend कि नाभिकीय शक्ति is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
Opponents, such as ग्रीनपीस अंतरराष्ट्रीय और nirs, मानना that nuclear power poses many threats to people and the environment.
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster ( 1986 ), फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति ( 2011 ), and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
There have also been some nuclear-powered पनडुब्बी mishaps.
Research into safety improvements is continuing and nuclear fusion, believed to be safer, may be प्रयुक्त in the भविष्य.
As of 2012, according to the iaea, विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 सिविल nuclear power reactors under construction in 15 countries.
In the US the licenses of almost half its रिएक्टरों have महरूम विस्तारित to 60 सालो, और योजनाएँ to निर्माण another dozen are under serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear विपत्ति prompted a पुनर्विचार of नाभिकीय उर्जा नीति in अनेक countries.
Germany decided to close सब इसके रिएक्टरों by 2022, and Italy has banned nuclear power.
Following Fukushima, the International Energy एजेंसी halved इसके अनुमान of अतिरिक्त नाभिकीय generating capacity to be built by 2035.
फोटोग्राफ of the बर्लिन Wall taken from the West side.
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट Germans from fleeing from Communism.
It was an iconic प्रतीक of the ठंडा War and its fall in 1989 marked the end of the War.
The Cold War, often dated from 1947 to 1991, was a sustained state of राजनैतिक और सैन्य टेंशन between शक्तियां in the पश्चिमी bloc, वर्चस्व by the United States with NATO among its allies, and powers in the Eastern Bloc, dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact.
This began after the success of उनके अस्थाई wartime गठबंधन विरूद्ध नाजी Germany, leaving the USSR and the US as two superpowers with profound economic and political differences.
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by मिश्र, इण्डिया, और यूगोस्लाविया ; इस गुट अस्वीकृत संघ with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East.
The Cold War was so named क्युकी the दो प्रमुख powers—each possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat.
Instead, in their संघर्ष लिये वैश्विक influence वे सगाई in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare and in regular indirect confrontations through proxy wars.
Cycles of relative calm होता be followed by high tension, which could have led to world war.
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ), the बर्लिन संकट of 1961, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट ( 1962 ), the वियतनाम War ( 1959–1975 ), the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ), the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ), the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic conventional force deployments, extensive aid to client states, espionage, massive propaganda campaigns, conventional and nuclear arms races, appeals to न्यूट्रल राष्ट्र, फंसने at खेल कार्यक्रम ( in particular the ओलंपिक ), and technological competitions such as the Space Race.
The US और ussr became शामिल in राजनैतिक and military conflicts in the Third World countries of Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia.
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war, both sides sought राहत of राजनैतिक तनाव through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased diplomatic, सैन्य, और आर्थिक pressures on the सोवियत संघ, at a समय जब the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य थी already कष्ट from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the नई सोवियत अध्यक्ष मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national independence grew stronger in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, विशेषकर Poland.
They reached a breaking पाइंट जब गोर्बाचेव refused to उपयोग सोवियत सैनिकों to support the faltering government of East Germany in late 1989.
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free इससे मास्को in a शांतिपूर्ण वेव of revolutions ( there was some violence in Romania ).
The pressures escalated अंदर the सोवियत संघ, जहाँ साम्यवादी गिरी और the ussr was formally dissolved in late 1991.
The United States remained as the world 's तभी महाशक्ति.
The Cold War and its events have left a significant विरासत, और it is प्रायः referred to in popular culture, especially in media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park of Iowa, USA, featuring a bluff निहार the अपर मिसिसिपी नदी विपरीत the संगम of the Wisconsin River.
The park is संचालित by the आयोवा Department of Natural Resources.
It is nearly a हजार एकड़ ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
the निकटतम नगर is McGregor, Iowa.
Iowa Highway 76 approximately defines इसके उत्तरी boundary.
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes शिखर, a विशेषकर ऊँची पाइंट निहार the gorge of the Upper Mississippi, and like Pikes Peak in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
There हैं चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds and RV facilities.
Mountain bikes are permitted in certain portions of the पार्क.
Aside इससे recreational विकास, the जमीन in the पार्क थी never cleared and to a large extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement.
It is part of a larger complex of parks, reserves और refuges जिससे शामिल पुतला mounds नेशनल स्मारक, the various components of the Yellow River State Forest, the enormous Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller, much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge.
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing विकास, और होगा कनेक्ट elements of these sites.
Zac Brown Band is an अमरीकी country/folk band based in Atlanta, Georgia.
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle, vocals ), John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar, vocals ), Coy Bowles ( guitar, keyboards ), Chris Fryar ( drums ), Clay Cook ( guitar, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
The band has toured throughout the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have also recorded five studio albums, and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried ``, `` Toes ``, `` राजमार्ग 20 सवारी ``, `` फ़्री ``, `` as वो 's चलना दूर ``, `` colder मौसम ``, `` घुटना गहन ``, `` रखना me in दिमाग ``, और `` अलविदा in उसके आँखें `` in जोड to the singles `` whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
Talk radio is a रेडियो स्वरूप containing चर्चा about topical issues.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single व्यक्तिगत, और प्रायः विशेषता साक्षात्कार with a number of different guests.
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation, usually by broadcasting live बातचीत between the मेजबान और श्रोता जो `` कॉल in '' ( प्रायः via टेलीफोन ) to the show.
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience interest and, in the मामला of वाणिज्यिक बात रेडियो, आकर्षित विज्ञापनदाता.
Generally, the shows are organized into segments, each separated by a pause for advertisements ; however, in public or non-commercial रेडियो, म्यूज़िक is sometimes निभाई in प्लेस of commercials to पृथक the program segments.
Variations of talk radio शामिल रूढ़िवादी बात, hot बात, liberal talk and sports talk.
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM, starting around 2005 the technology for internet-based talk-radio shows became लागत प्रभावी in the रूप of podcasts.
Now, it is possible for an individual to उपयोग a किस्में of सेवाएं to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a traditional radio station.
In addition TV programming from talk and news outlets such as बीबीसी, सीएनएन, ब्लूमबर्ग और फॉक्स हैं अभी प्रायः उपलब्धियाँ expanding the world of talk radio further.
Talk रेडियो सुनना is अभी enjoyed नहीं तभी on radios, but a wide variety of other devices and services including PCs using iTunes, station directories such as Tunein, show directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the परिवार hippidae, containing the following species:
Hippa adactyla fabricius, 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz, 1892 )
hippa alcimede ( de man, 1902 )
hippa australis Hale, 1927
Hippa carcineutes holthuis & Manning, 1970
Hippa celaeno ( de man, 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( दाना, 1852 )
hippa इंडिका haig, मुरुगन & Balakrishnan Nair, 1986
Hippa marmorata ( hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( Herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( Miers, 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita, and प्रजाति have प्रायः महरूम transferred between the दो genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially known as the Special Capital Region of जकार्ता ( ), is the पूंजी and largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the northwest coast of Java, Jakarta is the country 's economic, cultural and political केन्द्र, और साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595 as of November 2011, it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia, and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, Depok, tangerang और bekasi ), is the दूसरी largest in the world, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is listed as a global नगर in the 2008 वैश्वीकरण और संसार शहरों Study Group and Network ( GaWC ) research.
और रै an area of.
This area has population of well over 28 लाख, बनाना it एक of the world 's largest conurbations in terms of number of inhabitants.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the संसार 's 200 largest cities, a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171.
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than Kuala lumpur, बीजिंग and Bangkok.
Established in the fourth century, the city became an महत्वपूर्ण trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was ज्ञात as batavia ) और रै जारी as the पूंजी of इंडोनेशिया since the country 's independence was declared in 1945.
The city is the seat of the आसियान सचिवालय.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport, and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is कनेक्ट by अनेक intercity and commuter railways, and served by several bus lines running on reserved busways.
a ठेठ घर एयर conditioning window unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the properties of air ( primarily temperature और आर्द्रता ) to अधिक favourable शर्तें.
More generally, एयर कंडीशनिंग can refer to कोई रूप of technological कूलिंग, heating, ventilation, or disinfection that modifies the condition of air.
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con, AC or A/C, and not to be confused with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance, प्रणाली, or यांत्रिकी designed to change the air temperature and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle, but sometimes evaporation is used, commonly लिये सुकून कूलिंग in इमारतें और मोटर vehicles.
In निर्माण, a पूरा प्रणाली of हीटिंग, ventilation and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 पैर 7 पैर '' ( भी styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is taken इससे उसके नवीं स्टुडियो album, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on iTunes on December 16, 2010.
It was produced by `` a milli `` निर्माता Bangladesh.
The सोंग नमूने `` day-o ( the Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte.
DC बात ( styled as dc बात ), is a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio.
The group was formed in lynchburg, वर्जिनिया in 1987 by टोबी mckeehan, Michael Tait, and Kevin Max Smith.
They have released five major studio albums together : DC Talk ( 1989 ), Nu थांग ( 1990 ), फ़्री at पिछला ( 1992 ), यीशु freak ( 1995 ), और Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk `` the most लोकप्रिय overtly ईसाई अधिनियम of सब समय. ''
In 2000, the group released an EP titled सोलो which contained two solo songs from each member.
Since that time, DC Talk has been on an indefinite hiatus, and the three band members have प्रत्येक led सोलो करियर.
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times during the 2000s, हालांकि the समूह never officially reunited or disbanded.
The group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout their career.
Their first two releases, DC Talk and Nu Thang, यहूद of the हिप हॉप विधा.
DC Talk 's third album, Free at Last, also mainly took influence from the hip हॉप स्टाइल, हालांकि उनके म्यूज़िक began लेने on a चट्टान ध्वनि.
The trio 's last two albums, Jesus Freak and अलौकिक, यहूद predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at अलग टाइम्स और बाद समवेत into the biblical canon.
All लकिन the shortest of ये किताबे have महरूम विभाजित into chapters, generally a page or so in length, since the early 13th century.
चूंकि the mid-16th सदी, प्रत्येक अध्याय रै महरूम further divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the case of, and sometimes वहीँ is अधिक than एक sentence in a single verse, as in the case of.
As the chapter and verse divisions were not part of the original texts, वे रूप भाग of the paratext of the Bible.
the यहूदी विभाजन of the Hebrew text differ at various points from those used by Christians.
For instance, in Jewish tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses, making 116 more verses, whereas the स्थापित ईसाई अभ्यास is to गिनती और क्रमांक प्रत्येक Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places, e.g. in यहूदी bibles is गिने as in ईसाई translations.
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and associated संकेतक ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to जहाँ उपयोगी सामग्री relating to कि heading can be found in a document.
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will include names of people, places and events, and concepts selected by a व्यक्ति as होने प्रासंगिक और of ब्याज to a संभावित reader of the book.
The pointers are typically पेज संख्याएँ, अनुच्छेद numbers or section numbers.
In a पुस्तकालयों कैटलॉग the शब्द हैं लेखक, शीर्षक, विषय headings, etc., and the pointers are call numbers.
Internet search engines, such as Google, and full text searching सहायता provide अभिगम to सूचना लकिन हैं नहीं as चयनात्मक as an अनुक्रमणिका, as वे provide non-relevant कड़ी, and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect.
In United States financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes प्रवर्तन संजाल ( fincen ), an एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष, regarding संदिग्ध or potentially suspicious activity.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book दिए to विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially सीमित by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन थी विस्तारित to other colleges in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any उपयोक्ता जो घोषित themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत users of the site.
Users must register पहले using the साईट, बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल, add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों, और exchange messages, including automatic notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, school or college, or other characteristics, and categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of September 2012, Facebook रै over एक अरब active users.
according to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण, वहीँ हैं 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, and जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of उसके अपना धन to the घट.
A January 2009 Compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment साप्ताहिक शामिल the साईट on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची, saying, `` कैसा on धरती did we stalk our exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
आलोचकों, ऐसे as फेसबुक detox, राज्य कि फेसबुक has turned into a national obsession in the United States, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर in may 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a फेसबुक account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ regions, साथ the साईट losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually दायर लिये an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
Sulfonamide कार्यात्मक समूह
hydrochlorothiazide is a सल्फोनेमाइड and a thiazide.
furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड, but not a thiazide.
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes पुकारा sulfa दवाएँ or sulpha दवाएँ ) हैं सिंथेटिक रोगाणुरोधी agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
Some sulfonamides are भी विहीन of जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
the sulfonylureas और thiazide diuretics are newer drug groups based on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies हैं आम, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing दवाएँ और एडिटिव, ऐसे as sulfates और sulfites, जिससे are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group, and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides.
This is a list of वर्ण इससे जार्ज Lopez.
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये उनके मांस, अंडे, और bas feathers चूंकि ancient times.
30 Seconds to मंगल is an अमरीकी चट्टान band from Los Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of कर्ता jared leto ( सीसे vocals, लय गिटार, songwriter ), Shannon Leto ( drums, percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of फ़रिश्ते & airwaves ) in 2007, टिम kelleher became the bassist लिये the समूह, performing सजीव तभी साथ दोनो jared and Miličević recording bass for studio recordings, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
Previously, the group also featured guitarists Solon Bixler ( now of Great उत्तरी ) और केविन ड्रेक ( अभी of Polaroid Kiss ).
To date, 30 Seconds to Mars have released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम – 30 सेकेंड to मंगल ( 2002 ), a खूबसूरत झूठ ( 2005 ), इस is युद्ध ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ), To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been संबद्ध ज़्यादातर साथ neo-prog, progressive metal and post-grunge, but they have also included emo, screamo, space rock and synthrock into their music.
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical और आध्यात्मिक गीत, अवधारणा albums and their use of experimental music.
A क्रिसमस स्टोरी is a 1983 अमरीकी क्रिसमस कॉमेडी फिल्मी आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur Jean Shepherd, based on his book In God We Trust, All Others Pay Cash, with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories.
It was directed by bob क्लार्क.
The film has since become a holiday classic और is दिखाया numerous टाइम्स on टेलीविज़न दौरान the Christmas season on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected for preservation in the National फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of Congress for being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A जो 's केकड़ा shack शाखा in San Diego, CA.
The भवन थी initially a rowing क्लबों और थी बाद converted into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American कड़ी of beach-themed seafood कैज़ुअल dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group.
Founded in Houston, Texas, the रेस्तरां अभी operates स्थितियाँ सब आरपार the United States of America.
it serves seafood and American cuisine.
The restaurants also have a gift shop that sells facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising जो 's seafood चुनाव.
It is आधारित in ह्यूस्टन, Texas.
New York City Cruise Liner Terminal in नरक 's रसोईघर at 52nd Street.
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner Row or Manhattan Cruise टर्मिनल or नई यॉर्क क्रूज टर्मिनल ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of North River Piers 88, 90, 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between वेस्ट 46th और वेस्ट 54th Street.
( As a general rule, pier संख्याएँ in मैनहटन can be संकल्पित by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street. )
Ships now डॉक at Piers 88, 90 and 92.
Pier 94 on the north पक्ष is now used for exhibition space.
बांध 86, एकबार प्रयुक्त by United States Lines, is now home to the USS Intrepid.
in 2003, the टर्मिनल handled 900,000 passengers.
The city is forecasting that 1.5 million होगा उपयोग the टर्मिनल by 2017.
The piers are long और अलावा.
They were first completed in 1935 to replace the चेल्सी पियर as the नगर 's लक्ज़री लाइनर terminal.
The new टर्मिनल थी निर्मित to हैंडल बडे जहाजों कि था outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The renovated plans call for it to हैंडल तीन विशाल जहाजों at a समय.
In doing renovations, the नगर is भी considering decommissioning बांध 92.
Logo of the New York Cruise terminal.for
decades the टर्मिनल थी the तभी ocean-going passenger terminal in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time, two new terminals have opened in the हार्बर — the केप स्वतंत्रता क्रूज Port opened in 2004 in Bayonne, New Jersey ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ), and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The वेस्ट पक्ष राजमार्ग takes a छोटी जोग ईस्ट इससे the पियर to नीचे वेस्ट 42nd Street because when the terminal was built land had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers.
The US Army Corps of Engineers, who कंट्रोल the waterfront आयाम, होता नहीं extend the pierhead लकीर दूर into the river, so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land.
The city पहले किया इस लिये the चेल्सी पियर ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away.
At the Passenger Terminal actual मैनहटन schist थी taken away.
From डाउनस्ट्रीम in the नदी
Many major passenger ships have docked there, including the RMS Queen Mary 2 और स्वतंत्रता of the समंदर, पहले the ब्रुकलीन and Bayonne terminals opened.
The SS normandie caught आग और subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth during World War II.
The Normandie, renamed USS Lafayette, lies capsized in the frozen मिट्टी at बांध 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's जल्द to be नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and उन्नयन the क्रूज टर्मिनल to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the regular, recurring, और अन्य वर्ण of the TV series NCIS.
Christian सही is a पद प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by their strong support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the शिक्षाओं of christianity to राजनीती और पब्लिक नीति by proclaiming the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to उपयोग those शिक्षाओं to influence law and public policy.
In the U.S., the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण protestants कि draws `` support इससे नीतियां रूढ़िवादी Catholics, Jews, Mormons, and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals.
the गति रै इसके जड़ें in American politics going back as far the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, from grassroots सक्रियता as खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on सोशल मुद्दे और ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative स्थितियाँ on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ, स्टेम कोशिका शोध, समलैंगिकता, contraception, abortion, and pornography.
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S., the movement has been a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर in the राजनीती of कनाडा, the नीदरलैंड्स, उत्तरी आयरलैंड and Australia, among others.
Far East Movement ( stylized as far★east गति or abbreviated fm ) is an American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ), Prohgress ( जेम्स roh ), j-splif ( jae choung ), and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ).
Far East Movement 's पहला अर्जी to कीर्ति थी उनके सोंग `` गोलाकार गोलाकार '' प्रदर्शित in the Hollywood movie, The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift, and its subsequent soundtrack, video game and DVD.
Since `` Round Round '', the group has been featured on various network shows including,, अनुगामी, गपशप लड़की, और finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित फिल्मी at Sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट और on itunes as खूब in late October 2010.
Far East Movement also has the distinction of being the first asian-american समूह to earn a # 1 hit on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 in the United States.
LR44 is the IEC designation for an क्षारीय 1.5 वोल्ट बटन कोशिका, commonly प्रयुक्त in छोटी led flashlights, digital thermometers, calculators, calipers, watches, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
LR44 क्षारीय कोशिका
The battery नामकरण is पारिभाषित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries, part 3 Watch batteries ).
the अक्षर l indicates the electrochemical प्रणाली प्रयुक्त ; a zinc negative electrode, manganese dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a round कोशिका 11.4±0.2 mm व्यास और 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their own part numbers for IEC प्रकार lr44 batteries including:
LR44, lr44g, lr44gd, LR44H
LR1154, l1154, l1154c, l1154f, l1154g, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn )
1166a
AG13, A613, ag14, ag-14, G13A, G13-A
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, GP76A, GPA7, gpa75, gpa76, gps76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, CA18, CA19, cr44, d76a, ka, ka76, ms76h, px76a, PX675A, RPX675, RW82, SB-F9, V13GA
4.5-volt, d, c, AA, AAA, AAAA, A23, 9-volt, CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries are or were बना in the r44 आकार.
formerly, पारा बैटरी यहूद बना as button cells ( types MR44 and NR44 ).
zinc-air बैटरी type PR44 require air to work.
Silver-oxide बैटरी प्रकार sr44 may provide अतिरिक्त क्षमता compared to lr44 प्रकार but have slightly different voltage characteristics.
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded साथ प्रतिस्थापन of lr44 types.
निर्माता 's संख्याएँ लिये silver oxide R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( energizer )
303/357 ( d357h )
Hurricane कैटरीना थी the deadliest और सबसे destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.
It was the costliest natural disaster, as खूब as एक of the पाँच deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United States.
Among recorded Atlantic hurricanes, it थी the छठे strongest overall.
At least 1,833 लोगों died in the hurricane और subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
hurricane कैटरीना formed over the बहामा on अगस्त 23, 2005 और crossed दक्षिणी Florida as a moderate Category 1 hurricane, causing some deaths and flooding there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the गरम गल्फ जल, लकिन weakened पहले बनाना इसके दूसरी landfall as a श्रेणी 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused कठोर विनाश साथ the गल्फ coast इससे सेंट्रल Florida to Texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant क्रमांक of मौतों occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध प्रणाली catastrophically failed, in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
Eventually 80 % of the नगर और विशाल tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, and the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
However, the worst property damage occurred in coastal क्षेत्रों, ऐसे as सब मिसिसिपी beachfront कस्बों, जिससे यहूद flooded over 90 % in hours, as boats and casino barges rammed buildings, pushing cars and houses inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
the hurricane surge सुरक्षा असफलताओं in नई ऑरलियन्स हैं माना the worst सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in U.S. history and prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
Responsibility for the failures and flooding थी रखी squarely on the फौज corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood डुवल, u.S. ज़िला अदालत, but the federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal, state and local governments, resulting in the resignation of Federal Emergency प्रबन्धन एजेंसी ( fema ) निदेशक माइकल D. भूरा, और of नई ऑरलियन्स पुलिस विभाग ( nopd ) अधीक्षक एडी Compass.
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ), नेशनल hurricane बीच ( nhc ), और नेशनल मौसम सेवा ( nws ) were commended for their actions.
They provided accurate hurricane weather tracking forecasts साथ sufficient सीसे समय.
Even the most insistent appeals इससे नेशनल, राज्य और लोकल public officials to residents to evacuate before the storm did not warn that the levees could breach and fail.
U.S. कर्ज़ इससे 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the पब्लिक '' और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the कुल national debt or gross public debt.
The अंतर is the `` intragovernmental कर्ज़, '' जिससे शामिल दायित्वों to government programs such as Social Security.
Stated as a formula, National Debt = Debt held by the पब्लिक + intragovernmental कर्ज़.
The second panel shows the two debt figures as a percentage of u.S. जीडीपी ( डालर मान of u.S. आर्थिक production for that year ).
The शीर्ष फलक is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars.
The United States public debt is the money borrowed by the federal government of the United States through the issuing of प्रतिभूति by the राजकोष और अन्य संघीय सरकारी agencies.
US public debt consists of दो घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes Treasury securities आयोजित by निवेशकों बाहर the संघीय सरकारी, सहित that held by individuals, corporations, the Federal Reserve System and foreign, state and local governments.
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in खाते administered by the संघीय सरकारी that are owed to program beneficiaries, such as the Social Security Trust Fund.
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses, including ब्याज आय, of ये खाते कि have महरूम invested in Treasury securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual unified बजट deficit or surplus.
The federal सरकारी बजट deficit or surplus is the difference between government receipts and spending, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, कुछ बिता कि is excluded इससे the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
Historically, the US public कर्ज़ as a share of जीडीपी increased during wars and recessions, and subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the public as a share of GDP peaked just after संसार युद्ध ii ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ), but then fell over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, large budget deficits and the resulting increases in कर्ज़ have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term स्थिरता of the संघीय सरकारी 's fiscal policies.
On 2 April 2013, debt held by the पब्लिक थी लगभग $ 11.959 खरब or about 75 % of GDP.
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion, giving a संयुक्त कुल पब्लिक कर्ज़ of $ 16.805 खरब.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors, the largest of जिससे यहूद the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन और जापानी at just over $ 1.1 trillion each.
In basketball, an assist is attributed to a खिलाड़ी जो गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a रास्ता कि लीड to a score by field goal, meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket.
There is some judgment involved in deciding whether a passer चाहिए be credited साथ an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the player who receives the pass makes a बास्केट बाद ड्रिब्लिंग the ball.
However, the original definition of an assist did not include ऐसे परिस्थितियों, so the तुलना of assist आंकडे आरपार eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass directly before the score may be counted as an assist, so no more than एक assist can be अंकित प्रति फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य ( नापसंद in other sports, such as ice hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by फ़्री throws करता नहीं गिनती as an assist in the एनबीए, लकिन करता in fiba खेल ( only one assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ), as their role is primarily कि of a passer और ballhandler.
Centers tend to get fewer assists, but centers with good floor presence और अदालत दृष्टि can dominate a टोली by assisting.
Being inside the कुंजी, the बीच प्रायः रै the बेहतरीन कोण और the best position for `` dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area.
Center Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists in 1968.
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess, such as former NBA center Hakeem olajuwon, can भी be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the रक्षा 's double-teaming tends to खोलें up offense in the form of shooters.
The NBA single-game assist record is 30, held by Scott Skiles of the Orlando Magic against the डेनवर टेंडर्स, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record for most career assists is आयोजित by जॉन स्टॉकटन साथ 15,806.
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK, when discussing property taxes in the United राज्य, or previously in साइप्रस और माल्टा ) is a now-abstract ईकाई of करेंसी प्रयुक्त sometimes in हिसाब.
In the United States, it is a notional unit equivalent to of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर ( a दसवाँ of a cent ).
In the United किंगडम it थी प्रस्तावित दौरान the decades of discussion on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling.
अनेक अन्य मुद्राएँ प्रयुक्त the mill, such as the Maltese lira.
The term comes from the Latin `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth भाग ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a series of conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia और city-states of the हैलेनिक संसार कि प्रारंभ in 499 bc and lasted until 449 BC.
The टक्कर between the fractious राजनैतिक संसार of the यूनानियों और the विशाल empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC.
Struggling to नियम the independent-minded शहरों of ionia, the फारसियों appointed tyrants to rule each of them.
This होता prove to be the सोर्स of much trouble for the Greeks and Persians alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to जीतें the द्वीप of naxos, साथ पारसी support ; however, the expedition थी a क़हर और, pre-empting उसके dismissal, Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians.
इस थी the शुरूआत of the आयोनियन Revolt, which would last until 493 BC, progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the conflict.
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria, and in 498 bc ये forces helped to capture and burn the Persian regional capital of Sardis.
The Persian किंग दारा the ग्रेट vowed to have बदला on Athens and Eretria for this act.
The revolt continued, with the two पहलू effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
In 494 BC, the Persians regrouped, और attacked the epicentre of the विद्रोह in Miletus.
At the Battle of Lade, the Ionians suffered a decisive defeat, and the विद्रोह collapsed, साथ the फाइनल सदस्यों होने stamped out the following year.
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts और इससे the interference of the mainland Greeks, Darius embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC, with the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace and macedon पहले अनेक mishaps मजबूर an जल्दी समाप्त to the अभियान.
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece, this time आरपार the ईजियन समुद्र, अंतर्गत the कमांड of Datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the cyclades, before besieging, capturing and razing Eretria.
However, while en route to attack Athens, the Persian force was decisively पराजित by the athenians at the बैटल of मैराथन, ending Persian efforts for the time being.
Darius then began to योजना to पूरा the conquest of यूनानियों, लकिन died in 486 BC and responsibility for the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I.
in 480 bc, xerxes personally led the second Persian invasion of Greece with one of the largest ancient armies ever assembled.
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of thermopylae अनुमत the फारसियों to मशाल एथेंस और overrun सबसे of यूनानियों.
However, while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet, the Persians suffered a severe शिकस्त at the बैटल of Salamis.
The following साल, the confederated यूनानियों गई on the अप्रिय, defeating the Persian army at the Battle of Plataea, and ending the invasion of Greece.
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian बेड़े at the बैटल of mycale, पहले expelling पारसी garrisons इससे Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states from the Spartans, and the anti-Persian alliance was इसलिए reconstituted around athenian नेतृत्व, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian League continued to campaign विरूद्ध फारस लिये the अगला तीन दशकों, शुरूआत with the expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons from Europe.
At the बैटल of the eurymedon in 466 bc, the League won a double victory that finally secured freedom for the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's involvement in an मिश्र विद्रोह ( इससे 460–454 bc ) resulted in a विनाशकारी शिकस्त, और further campaigning was suspended.
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC, लकिन हासिल छोटी, और जब it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end.
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was marked by a सलाम सन्धि between एथेंस और फारस, the so-called Peace of Callias.
hooverville near Portland, Oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular name for shanty कस्बों निर्मित by बेघर लोगों दौरान the ग्रेट अवसाद.
They were named after Herbert Hoover, who was President of the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the onset of the अवसाद and widely blamed for it.
The term was coined by Charles माइकेल्सन, publicity मुख्य of the Democratic National Committee.
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL ड्राफ्ट by the ग्रीन Bay Packers.
बाद a ऋतु on the अभ्यास स्क्वाड और two seasons backing up Brett Favre, he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl रूप ; he थी चयनित to तीन प्रो प्याले और an all-pro selection.
Following ten सीज़न साथ the सीहॉक्स, Hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis Colts in 2013 less than 24 घंटों बाद होने released by the टेनेसी Titans.
ICT is inevitably सम्बन्धित to the कंप्यूटर संजाल.
Information और संचार प्रौद्योगिकी or ( आईसीटी ), is प्रायः used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ), but is a more specific term that stresses the role of unified communications and the integration of telecommunications ( telephone lines and wireless signals ), computers as well as necessary enterprise software, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable users to access, store, transmit, and manipulate information.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, but it became popular बाद it थी प्रयुक्त in a रपट to the uk सरकारी by डेनिस stevenson in 1997 और in the संशोधित नेशनल curriculum लिये इंग्लैण्ड, Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ कंप्यूटर संजाल through a सिंगल cabling or link system.
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, building प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ the कंप्यूटर संजाल प्रणाली using a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली of cabling, सिग्नल distribution and management.
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a shorter रूप of सूचना और संचार ( s ) प्रौद्योगिकी.
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications with information processing and content handling कृत्यों on a आम डिजिटल प्रौद्योगिकी आधार.
For a तुलना of ये और अन्य terms, see.
For ICT विकास अनुक्रमणिका around the world, see.
This is a सूची of वर्ण from George Lopez.
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical model the `` corpuscles '' ( or आधुनिक electrons ) यहूद arranged non-randomly, in घूर्णन rings
The current model of the sub-atomic structure involves a घना केंद्रक घिरी by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson, who discovered the electron in 1897, was proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the परमाणु केंद्रक in अनुक्रम to add the इलेक्ट्रॉन to the परमाणु मॉडल.
In this मॉडल, the अणु is रचित of electrons ( जिससे thomson स्टिल पुकारा `` corpuscles '', हालांकि G. J. stoney था प्रस्तावित कि अणु of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges, like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding ``.
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom, but with many structures possible लिये positioning अनेक electrons, विशेषकर घूर्णन बजती of electrons ( देखिए नीचे ).
Instead of a soup, the atom was also sometimes said to have था a `` बादल '' of धनात्मक चार्ज.
With this model, Thomson abandoned उसके पहले `` nebular अणु '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least part of the atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles, although the rest of the positively चार्ज भाग of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil प्रयोग of hans geiger और अर्नेस्ट मार्सडेन.
This was interpreted by अर्नेस्ट रदरफोर्ड in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high positive charge ( in the मामला of सुनहरा, पर्याप्त to संतुलन परिचय 100 electrons ), thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom.
Although gold has an atomic number of 79, immediately after रदरफोर्ड 's पेपर appeared in 1911 antonius वैन डेन broek बना the सहज सुझाव कि परमाणु number is nuclear charge.
the पदार्थ required experiment to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge was very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found तभी एक ईकाई अंतर ), और moseley संदर्भित तभी the papers of वैन डेन broek और रदरफोर्ड.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the वही साल, in जिससे a केंद्रक containing an परमाणु क्रमांक of धनात्मक चार्ज is घिरी by an बराबर क्रमांक of electrons in orbital shells.
Bohr had भी प्रेरित moseley 's work.
Thomson 's model was compared ( though नहीं by thomson ) to a अंग्रेजों मिठाई called plum pudding, hence the name.
Thomson 's पेपर थी प्रकाशित in the कूच 1904 संस्करण of the philosophical Magazine, the leading British science journal of the day.
In Thomson 's view :... the atoms of the elements consist of a क्रमांक of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला of वर्दी positive electrification,...
In this model, the electrons were free to rotate भीतर the blob or बादल of धनात्मक substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the फैक्ट कि जब an इलेक्ट्रॉन स्थानांतरित दूर इससे the बीच of the धनात्मक बादल, it लगा a larger जाल धनात्मक inward फ़ोर्स, क्युकी वहीँ थी अधिक material of opposite charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
In Thomson 's model, electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, और spectra यहूद to be accounted लिये by उर्जा मतभेद of different ring orbits.
thomson attempted to मेक उसके मॉडल खाता लिये कुछ of the major spectral lines known for some elements, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, thomson 's मॉडल ( साथ साथ a समान saturnian रिंग मॉडल लिये परमाणु electrons, भी put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ), were earlier harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
Typical स्ट्रिप of बेकन.
Bacon is a cured मांस prepared इससे a pig.
It is first cured using विशाल quantities of नमक, either in a brine or in a शुष्क पैकिंग ; the result is fresh bacon ( also known as green bacon ).
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months in ठंडा एयर, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh और सूखी बेकन is typically cooked before eating.
Boiled bacon is ready to eat, as is कुछ स्मोक्ड बेकन, लकिन may be cooked further before eating.
Bacon is prepared from अनेक अलग कटौती of meat.
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork, मगर in the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ it is almost always prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` fatty '', or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ).
The side cut रै अधिक मांस और कम मोटे than the belly.
Bacon may be prepared इससे either of दो पृथक वापस कटौती : fatback, जिससे is लगभग pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
bacon-cured pork loin is known as back bacon.
uncooked पोर्क पेट bacon strips.
Bacon may be खाया स्मोक्ड, boiled, fried, baked, or grilled, or used as a minor ingredient to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, विशेषकर खेल, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The word is निकला इससे the बूढ़ा ऊँची जर्मनी bacho, अर्थ `` buttock '', `` ham '' or `` side of bacon '', and cognate with the Old French bacon.
In महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय, इस भाग of the सुअर is प्रायः नहीं स्मोक्ड like bacon is in the United States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient, valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor.
In Italy, this is called pancetta and is usually पकाया in छोटी घन or परोसा uncooked और thinly sliced as भाग of an antipasto.
Meat from other animals, such as beef, lamb, chicken, goat, or turkey, may also be cut, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble bacon, and may even be referred to as `` bacon ''.
ऐसे उपयोग is आम in क्षेत्रों साथ significant Jewish and Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured पेट of a स्वाइन carcass '' ; अन्य कटौती और विशेषताएँ must be separately qualified ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ).
For safety, बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by trichinella, a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating, freezing, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork and ham by मतभेद in the brine ( or शुष्क पैकिंग ).
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably sodium nitrite, and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate curing और stabilize color.
Flavorings such as brown शुगर or मेपल हैं प्रयुक्त लिये कुछ products.
If used, sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering जब the बेकन is पण fried.
Today, a brine for हैम, लकिन नहीं बेकन, includes a large amount of sugar.
Historically, `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to अलग कटौती of मांस कि यहूद brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
The Employee रिटायरमेंट आय सुरक्षा अधिनियम of 1974 ( erisa ) (, संहिताबद्ध in भाग at ) is a संघीय विधि जिससे establishes न्यूनतम मानकों for pension plans in private industry and provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans.
ERISA was enacted to protect the रूचि of employee benefit plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of वित्तीय और अन्य सूचना concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
providing लिये उचित remedies and access to the federal courts.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee benefit योजनाएँ, जिससे हैं मिला मुख्यतः in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself.
Responsibility for the निर्वचन और प्रवर्तन of erisa is विभाजित among the Department of Labor, the Department of the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act of foreign nationals entering the United States, without government permission and in violation of United States nationality विधि, or रहकर परे the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A warning sign at the international boundary between the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा in Point Roberts, Washington.
A much different दृष्टिकोण at the u.s.-mexico किनारा near El Paso, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the Center for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million people, down from 12.5 million people in 2007.
अन्य estimates range from 7 to 20 million.
According to a 2005 pew हिस्पैनिक बीच रपट, 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent स्कूल ज़िला is a school district based in Alvin, Texas ( USA ).
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school district दक्षिण of ह्यूस्टन in the समुदायों of एल्विन, manvel, pearland, hillcrest, rosharon, Iowa Colony, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the नगर सहित the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek Ranch, South Fork, and Southern Trails.
Alvin ISD कवर of land.
in इंसान anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a nerve which runs near the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral स्नायु of कोहनी संयुक्त is in relation with the ulnar nerve.
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human body ( अर्थ unprotected by मांसपेशी or अस्थि ), so चोट is common.
This nerve is directly connected to the little finger, और the सटा हाफ of the रिंग उंगली, supplying the palmar पक्ष of ये उंगलियाँ, including both front and back of the tips, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One method of injuring the nerve is to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus इससे posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is फंस between the अस्थि and the overlying skin at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping एक 's `` funny bone ''.
This नाम is विचार to be a pun, आधारित on the sound resemblance between the name of the bone of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous ``.
alternatively, according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck ''.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a fictional अंग्रेजों स्कूल of जादू लिये विद्यार्थी aged ग्यारह to eighteen, and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently लिया the नाम इससे the hogwort संयंत्र ( croton capitatus ), जिससे वो had seen at Kew Gardens some time before writing the series, although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th बेहतरीन स्कॉटिश शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008 ऑनलाइन रैंकिंग, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School.
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network Rankings, it was added to the schools listing `` लिये मजा '' और थी तब voted on.
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a set of events and conditions that led to a financial crisis and subsequent मंदी कि began in 2008.
It was characterized by a वृद्धि in subprime बंधक delinquencies and foreclosures, and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008, with significant disruption in the प्रवाह of क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों और उपभोक्ता और the onset of a severe global recession.
There were many causes of the crisis, with commentators assigning अलग स्तर of दोष to वित्तीय संस्थानों, regulators, क्रेडिट agencies, government housing policies, and consumers, among others.
A proximate cause was the rise in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower दायरा to लगभग 20 % इससे 2004 to 2006, साथ much उच्चतर ratios in कुछ भाग of the U.S.
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 लिये example, were adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two परिवर्तन यहूद भाग of a broader ट्रेंड of lowered lending मानकों and higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly ऋणी, साथ the अनुपात of कर्ज़ to डिस्पोजेबल निजी income rising from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home कीमतें अस्वीकृत steeply बाद peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans became more difficult.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates ( causing higher monthly भुगतान ), बंधक delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, including subprime mortgages, widely held by financial firms globally, खोया सबसे of उनके मान.
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed कर्ज़ और अन्य प्रतिभूति as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of u.S. क्रेडिट और वित्तीय बाज़ार led to tightening क्रेडिट around the world and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe.
The crisis had severe, long-lasting consequences for the u.S. और यूरोपीय economies.
The U.S. entered a deep recession, with nearly 9 लाख कार्य खोया during 2008 and 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30 % on average and the u.S. भण्डार मार्केट गिरी लगभग 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained निकट उनके कम पाइंट और unemployment remained elevated.
आर्थिक विकास remained below pre-crisis levels.
यूरोपीय भी जारी to संघर्ष साथ its own economic crisis.
कार्ल जंग in 1910.
Myers and Briggs extrapolated their mbti सिद्धान्त इससे जंग 's कृतियाँ in his book Psychological Types.
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) मूल्यांकन is a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung and पहला प्रकाशित in उसके 1921 किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रकार ( अंग्रेज़ी edition, 1923 ).
Jung theorized कि वहीँ हैं चार प्रिंसिपल मनोवैज्ञानिक कृत्यों by which we experience the world : sensation, intuition, feeling, and thinking.
एक of ये चार कृत्यों is dominant most of the time.
The original developers of the personality inventory were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter, Isabel Briggs Myers ; these two, having studied extensively the work of Jung, turned their interest of human behavior into a भक्ति of turning the सिद्धान्त of मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रकार to practical use.
They began creating the indicator during World War II, believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time कार्य कि होता be `` सबसे आरामदायक और प्रभावी ''.
The initial प्रश्नावली grew into the myers-briggs Type Indicator, which was first published in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on normal populations और emphasizes the मान of naturally occurring differences.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the mbti is कि we सब have विशिष्ट वरीयताओं in the way we construe our experiences, and these preferences underlie our interests, needs, values, and motivation '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga, from her second studio album born इस रास्ता ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on अप्रैल 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a dance and इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in प्रेम साथ a man जो गद्दारी her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted गागा in the पास्ट, और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further समझाया कि the सोंग थी भी परिचय honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the single थी designed by गागा in microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, जो likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to गागा 's पिछला redone-produced ट्रैक्स, सहित `` पोकर Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains three पृथक hooks और a हाउस -influenced break down.
Gaga समझाया कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण बात about her as beyond redemption, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, but was less successful commercially in तुलना to गागा 's पिछला singles.
The song reached the शीर्ष टेन of the charts in most major music markets, and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring नॉर्मन reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई मरियम magdalene.
The video portrays them as आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
It included the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying Jesus, and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its release, the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, नहीं finding any offensive content.
The video was nominated for two awards at the 2011 MTV वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including The Graham नॉर्टन दिखाएँ, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '', the फ्रेंच X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
मारविन gaye ( अप्रैल 2, 1939april 1, 1984 ), born मारविन Pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell, बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस of motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s, gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, gaye रै महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the अकादमी of गति चित्र कला और sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the motion picture industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for.
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards, as it represents सब the directing, एक्टिंग, म्यूज़िक composing, लिखने, editing and other efforts put forth into a film.
Consequently, Best Picture is the फाइनल पुरस्कार और the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना Academy Awards ceremony.
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in लॉस एंजिल्स, जहाँ the अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremonies have महरूम आयोजित चूंकि 2002, शोकेस every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago.
Heavy Rain is an इंटरैक्टिव नाटक action-adventure वीडियो game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3.
The game is written and directed by Quantic Dream 's संस्थापक और सीईओ David Cage.
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled बाद फिल्मी noir, featuring चार protagonists शामिल साथ the mystery of the Origami Killer, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim, while investigative journalist Madison Paige, FBI profiler Norman jayden, और निजी जासूस स्कॉट शेल्बी हैं प्रत्येक trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller, और in कुछ मामले, performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी समय कार्यक्रम during fast-paced action sequences.
The player 's decisions and क्रियाएँ दौरान the खेल होगा affect the narrative.
The main characters can be killed, और निश्चित क्रियाएँ may lead to different scenes and endings.
A playable demo was released on 11 फ़रवरी 2010.
The demo थी released prior to इस तिथि लिये लोगों जो took part in a Four Day Challenge on 5 February 2010.
A पैच to allow उपयोग of the प्लेस्टेशन मूव controller to play the game was released in September 2010.
Heavy Rain थी critically acclaimed and has sold over two million copies.
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN and Gaming Union, and बेहतरीन ps3 खेल of 2010 by gamespy और ign.
A modified version of the game was released titled भारी बरसात संस्करण modifiée exclusively in France, aimed towards a younger audience.
in 2010, the खेल थी शामिल in the book 1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation industry देनदारी : सदस्यों निधि और reserves ( a $ लाखो ) since 1988.
Annual total superannuation industry एसेट विकास 1996-2005.
superannuation in ऑस्ट्रेलिया refers to the arrangements which people make in Australia to have funds available for them in retirement.
In Australia, superannuation arrangements are government-supported and प्रोत्साहित, और न्यूनतम प्रावधानों हैं अनिवार्य for employees.
For example, employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries और मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि, लकिन लोगों हैं प्रोत्साहित to put aside additional funds into superannuation.
the न्यूनतम दायित्व जरूरी by नियोक्ता is set to increase to 12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw निधि आउट of a superannuation निधि when the person meets one of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994.
This is a list of the characters from the American comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी the Game.
Electoral कॉलेज मैप प्रर्दशित the परिणाम of the 2012 U.S. presidential election.
President बराक ओबामा ( d - il ) जीती the लोकप्रिय vote in 26 states and the District of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes.
पूर्व राज्यपाल mitt romney ( r - ma ) जीती the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 states ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 electoral votes.
Cartogram representation of the चुनावी कॉलेज vote लिये the 2012 election, with each square representing one electoral vote.
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य every four years.
The President and Vice President are not निर्वाचित सीधे by the मतदाता.
Instead, they are elected by `` electors '' who are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state आधार.
Electors are apportioned to प्रत्येक राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of electors in each state is equal to the number of सदस्यों of कॉंग्रेस to जिससे the राज्य is हकदार.
The Twenty-third Amendment रै सदा resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors.
There are 538 electors, based on there being 435 representatives and 100 सीनेटरों, प्लस the तीन निर्वाचक इससे the ज़िला of कोलंबिया.
Electors are pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential उम्मीदवार, हालांकि unpledged निर्वाचक are possible.
In all states, except Maine और नेब्रास्का, निर्वाचक हैं निर्वाचित on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
That is, all निर्वाचक pledged to the अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी who wins the most votes in a state become electors for that state.
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '', selecting एक elector भीतर प्रत्येक congressional ज़िला by लोकप्रिय vote और selecting the बाकी दो निर्वाचक by a राज्यव्यापी popular vote.
Although no elector is जरूरी by संघीय विधि to honor a pledge, there have only been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
the बारहवीं amendment specifies कैसा a अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं निर्वाचित and requires each elector to cast one vote for President and another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue that the Electoral College is inherently undemocratic और देता झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन influence in electing the President and Vice President.
The Electoral College gives a न्यूमेरिक लाभ in the चुनाव of the president to the smaller states, as the minimum number of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other hand, the winner-take-all विधि of मतदान favors the larger states.
A number of constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking to alter the चुनावी कॉलेज or बदलें it with a direct popular vote.
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the पहला अफ़्रीकी American to hold the office.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, ओबामा is a ग्रैजुएट of कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों और हार्वर्ड Law School, where he was president of the Harvard Law Review.
He was a community आयोजक in शिकागो पहले कमाई उसके law degree.
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो विधि स्कूल इससे 1992 to 2004.
He served three terms representing the 13th ज़िला in the इलिनोइस सीनेट इससे 1997 to 2004, running unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate साथ उसके विजय in the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक, उसके keynote पता at the लोकतांत्रिक National Convention in July, and his election to the Senate in November.
He began his presidential campaign in 2007, and in 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to प्राप्त the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन.
He then defeated Republican nominee जॉन मैक्केन in the सामान्य चुनाव, और थी उदघाटन as president on January 20, 2009.
Nine महीने later, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney, and was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013.
Early in his पहला पद in दफ्तर, ओबामा हस्ताक्षरित into विधि आर्थिक stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम, प्रायः referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
In May 2012, he became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex marriage और in 2013 उसके प्रशासन दायर briefs जिससे urged the परम् अदालत to नियम in एहसान of same-sex युगल in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop levels in Afghanistan, हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ रूस, ordered u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in Libya, and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird was a Honda मोटरसाइकिल बना इससे 1996 to 2007.
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's fastest production motorcycle, and होंडा succeeded साथ a top speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the suzuki hayabusa, जिससे reached.
The blackbird is नामित बाद the लॉकहीड sr-71, भी a speed record holder.
Sample दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record based on images
Sample दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic स्वास्थ्य सूचना परिचय व्यक्तिगत मरीजों or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically सक्षम of being shared across different health care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों और अन्य information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical history, medication and allergies, immunization औकात, प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age and weight, and billing information.
The मेरिनर up on the mast in a storm.
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest प्रमुख कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी कवि सैमुएल टेलर कॉलरिज, लिखा in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern editions use a later संशोधित संस्करण मुद्रित in 1817 that featured a gloss.
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads, it was a सिग्नल शिफ़्ट to आधुनिक काव्य और the शुरूआत of British Romantic literature.
A प्रॉक्सी auto-config ( pac ) संचिका defines कैसा वेब browsers and other user agents can automatically choose the appropriate proxy server ( access method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a जावास्क्रिप्ट फलन “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This function returns a string with एक or अधिक अभिगम विधि specifications.
ये विशेषताएँ कारण the user agent to use a particular proxy server or to connect directly.
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back जब a प्रॉक्सी fails to respond.
The browser fetches इस pac संचिका before requesting other URLs.
The URL of the pac संचिका is either विन्यस्त manually or determined automatically by the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol.
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1, 1996 ), known mononymously as zendaya, is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, सिंगर and dancer.
she stars on the Disney चैनल sitcom शेक It Up as Rocky Blue.
She has starred in two films and played one of the lead roles in the फिल्मी frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced फर्न in the pixie Hollow Games.
She appeared in शुभ लक चार्ली as Rocky Blue and in a Good Luck Charlie and Shake It Up crossover title Charlie Shake It Up.
She appeared on prankstars as herself in the एपीसोड `` Walk The Prank '' and on A.N.T. Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
Zendaya is भी a संगीतकार.
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8, 2012 and started recording गीतों लिये उसके डेब्यू एल्बम on अगस्त 12, 2012.
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out `` और another सिंगल साथ बेला thorne पुकारा `` देखें me, '' which is featured on the Break It Down album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album साथ पुकारा शेक it up : सजीव 2 Dance, each have their own song on it, along with a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On August 21, 2012, Zendaya और बेला thorne released an ep पुकारा Shake It Up : Made In Japan.
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake, '' which is on the Disney Channel Holiday प्लेलिस्ट cd, जिससे थी released on अक्तूबर 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake It Up साउंडट्रैक थी released, हकदार i < 3 नृत्य ; on it, zendaya रै दो गीतों साथ Bella - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well as one solo song, `` Beat of My Drum. ''
This is a list of airports in पेन्सिलवेनिया ( a u.S. राज्य ), grouped by type and sorted by location.
It contains all public-use और सैन्य एयरपोर्ट in the state.
Some private-use and former airports may be शामिल जहाँ notable, ऐसे as एयरपोर्ट कि यहूद previously public-use, those साथ वाणिज्यिक enplanements अंकित by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code.
iOS ( previously iphone os ) is a मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली विकसित और वितरित by ठहराना Inc. Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms, it has been extended to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's खिड़कियाँ फोन और google 's एंड्रॉइड, ठहराना करता नहीं license iOS for installation on non-Apple hardware.
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS applications, which have collectively महरूम डाउनलोड अधिक than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile operating system इकाई shipped in the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012, पीछे only Google 's Android.
In June 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile web data consumption ( including उपयोग on दोनो the ipod टच और the ipad ).
at the हाफ of 2012, वहीँ यहूद 410 million devices activated.
According to the special media event held by Apple on सितंबर 12, 2012, 400 लाख डिवाइस have महरूम बेची through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the concept of सीधा हेरफेर, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface control elements consist of sliders, switches, और बटन.
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe, tap, पिंच, और रिवर्स पिंच, सब of जिससे have विशिष्ट परिभाषाएं भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the iOS operating system and its multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one आम परिणाम is the undo कमांड ) or घूर्णन it in तीन आयाम ( एक आम परिणाम is switching from portrait to landscape mode ).
iOS is निकला इससे os x, with which it shares the Darwin foundation.
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली प्रयुक्त on ठहराना computers.
In iOS, वहीँ हैं चार abstraction परतों : the कोर OS layer, the Core Services layer, the Media layer, and the Cocoa Touch layer.
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 gb of the यंत्र 's फ्लैश मेमोरी लिये the प्रणाली partition, using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself.
iOS currently रनों on iphone, ipad, iPod touch and Apple TV.
The Plymouth Superbird is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके अत्यधिक ऊँची rear wing.
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1 with its विशाल विंग्स at pikes शिखर
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic यंत्र जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन फलन is to 'spoil ' प्रतिकूल air movement across a body of a vehicle in motion, usually described as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the सामने of a गाडी हैं प्रायः पुकारा एयर dams, because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the amount of air flowing underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
Spoilers are often fitted to race and high-performance sports गाड़ियाँ, हालांकि वे have become आम on passenger vehicles as well.
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for styling purposes and have either little aerodynamic लाभ or भी मेक the वायुगतिकी बदतर.
Spoilers for cars are often incorrectly उलझन साथ, or the पद प्रयुक्त interchangeably with, wings.
Automotive wings are devices whose intended design is to generate downforce as एयर गुजरता around उन्हें, नहीं बस disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as Nintendo 's mascot, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by खेल पंक्तियां शिगेरू miyamoto और voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of video games where the character Mario plays a part, either as the समर्थक, विपक्षी, supporting अक्षर, as भाग of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game within a game.
It does not include simple references to the character, such as the portraits of Mario found in The लेजेंड of zelda : a कड़ी to the Past.
The year indicated is the year the game was first released, सबसे commonly in जापानी ; games were sometimes released years later in other regions of the world.
The सूची शामिल पोर्ट, remakes and compilations.
It does n't शामिल कोई आभासी कंसोल re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a traditional American लोक सोंग पहला अंकित by लंड burnett, a partially अँधा fiddler from Kentucky.
The सोंग थी originally अंकित by burnett as `` विदाई Song '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An early version was recorded by Emry आर्थर in 1928 ( vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public ब्याज in the सोंग थी नवीनीकृत after the release of the 2000 film O Brother, Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central role in the फिल्मी 's प्लाट.
The song was also included in the film 's अत्यधिक कामयाब, multiple-platinum selling साउंडट्रैक.
Josephson junction array chip developed by the National ब्यूरो of मानकों as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the si निकला ईकाई लिये इलेक्ट्रिक potential ( voltage ), electric potential difference, and electromotive force.
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ), who invented the वोल्टायिक pile, संभवतः the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the location of the साराजेवो हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987, before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A प्लैक commemorating the स्थान of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead in Sarajevo, by Gavrilo Princip, one of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे समन्वित by डेनियल Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives were सतत साथ the गति कि बाद became known as Young Bosnia.
Serbian military officers stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of these Serbian सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों थी मुख्य of सर्बियाई सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs और pistols और प्रशिक्षित उन्हें.
The assassins were दिए अभिगम to the वही clandestine टनल of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still जिंदा यहूद गिरफ्तार, आजमाया, convicted और punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a सर्बियाई कंगारू अदालत on the french-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations आता इससे ये दो trials and related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a स्पेनी मिशन in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, स्तिथ in present-day San Juan Capistrano.
It was founded on All Saints ' Day November 1, 1776, by स्पेनी catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano, a 15th सदी theologian और `` योद्धा पुजारी '' जो resided in the abruzzo प्रदेश of इटली, सैन जुआन capistrano रै the भेद of being home to the oldest building in California still in use, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and `` Father सेरा 's गिरिजाघर, '' it is the तभी extant ढांचा जहाँ it रै महरूम प्रलेखित that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass.
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one of the few missions to have actually been founded twice—others होने मिशन सैन जिबरील arcángel और मिशन la purísima concepción ).
The site was originally consecrated on अक्तूबर 30, 1775, by पिता fermín lasuén, but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The success of the settlement is evident in इसके ऐतिहासिक रिकॉर्ड.
Prior to the arrival of the missionaries, some 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout the local area.
By 1790, the number of converted Christians had grown to 700, and just six years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) जिया in or around the मिशन compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone, out of the कुल 4,639 souls परिवर्तित between 1776 and 1847.
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly juaneño इंडियंस ) हैं दफ्न in unmarked क़ब्रों in the मिशन 's cemetery ( campo santo ).
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan, who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the entrance to the कब्रिस्तान on the वेस्ट पक्ष of the प्रॉपर्टी, और a प्रतिमा उठाया in उसके सम्मान स्टैंड at the सिर of the क्रिप्ट.
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José Barona, विसेंट fustér, और विसेंट Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor.
The criolla or `` मिशन अंगूर, '' थी first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery.
The मिशन डाला a long काल of क्रमिक decline after secularization in 1833.
Numerous efforts were made over the years to restore the Mission to its पूर्व महिमा, लकिन none मिले साथ ग्रेट कामयाबी जबतक the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, और `` सेरा 's चैपल '' is still used for religious services.
About half-a-million visitors, including 80,000 स्कूल children, आइये to the मिशन प्रत्येक year.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a प्रसिद्ध architectural अचरज, the मिशन is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ).
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite विषय लिये अनेक notable कलाकारों, और रै महरूम immortalized in literature and on film numerous times, perhaps more than any other mission.
In 1984, a modern church complex was constructed just north and west of the मिशन यौगिक और is अभी ज्ञात as मिशन Basilica San Juan Capistrano.
Today, the मिशन यौगिक serves as a संग्रहालय, साथ the सेरा Chapel within the compound serving as a chapel for the mission parish.
Better Off Dead is a 1985 अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत जॉन cusack और written and directed by Savage Steve Holland.
It tells the स्टोरी of ऊँची स्कूल छात्र लेन myer जो is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium, located in the Central Business ज़िला of नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the New Orleans modernist architectural कड़ of कर्टिस और Davis.
Its steel frame covers a expanse.
Its dome is बना of a lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम और रै a diameter of, making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the NCAA 's प्रभाग i-a tulane ग्रीन वेव फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम in सम्मेलन यूएसए ), the राज्य फार्म bayou क्लासिक, the r+l Carriers New Orleans Bowl, the Allstate Sugar Bowl and, every fourth year, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States, the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates being माना लिये प्रमुख sporting कार्यक्रम, ऐसे as the सुपर कटोरी और the Final Four.
In 2005, the Superdome gained international attention of a different type when it housed हज़ारों of लोगों seeking आश्रय इससे Hurricane Katrina.
The building suffered extensive damage as a result of the storm, and was closed लिये अनेक महीने afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it was घोषित कि जर्मनी automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to the stadium.
The नई नाम took effect on October 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United राज्य ), बाद the mercedes-benz एरिना, the स्टेडियम of bundesliga क्लबों vfb stuttgart, in stuttgart, Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, China.
लॉबी of Jambo House
Giraffe on the savannah at जम्बो House
Disney 's Animal किंगडम आवास is an african-themed डीलक्स resort at the Walt Disney World Resort.
It खोली on अप्रैल 16, 2001.
the रिज़ॉर्ट is owned and operated by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts.
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal Kingdom Resort Area, सटा to डिज़्नी 's एनिमल किंगडम.
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public areas in the रिज़ॉर्ट भीतर निकटता of the animals, conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna.
The People 's Party, also known as the `` Populists '', थी a short-lived राजनैतिक party in the United States established in 1891 during the Populist movement ( United States, 19th Century ).
It was most important in 1892-96, और तब rapidly faded away.
Based among poor, white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North Carolina, Alabama, and Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ), it represented a radical crusading रूप of agrarianism और दुश्मनी to बैंको, railroads, और elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions साथ मजदूर संघ, और in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their presidential nominee, William Jennings Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` are commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to स्थापित रूचि और मुख्यधारा पार्टियों.
Linguistic map of सीरियल, कैमरून, और Benin.
Sign in English, बाहर the विश्वविद्यालयों of Lagos
वहीँ हैं सैंकड़ों of languages spoken in Nigeria.
The major भाषाएं हैं योरूबा, हौसा, इग्बो, Edo, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा, थी चुनी to सुकर the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई एकता of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the देश 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण areas, which comprise three quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे, encompassing तीन major African languages families : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, ऐसे as cen tuum, जिससे may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
A series of events led to the आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर.
War between Japan and the United States had been a possibility that each nation 's military forces planned लिये चूंकि the 1920s, हालांकि रियल टेंशन किया नहीं begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan.
Over the अगला दशक, जापानी विस्तारित धीरे into चीन, अग्रणी to all out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an प्रयत्न to embargo सब imports into चीन, सहित युद्ध आपूर्तियाँ purchased from the U.S.
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports, leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to अनुमान कि it था कम than दो सालो of बंकर आयल बाकी और to support the मौजूदा योजनाएँ to seize आयल संसाधन in the Dutch East Indies.
नियोजन था महरूम underway लिये कुछ समय on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific.
The Philippine islands, at that time an American territory, यहूद भी a जापानी target.
The Japanese military concluded that an invasion of the Philippines होता provoke an अमरीकी सैन्य response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait for the inevitable US counterattack, Japan 's military leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack, जिससे वे assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed लिये the मुक्ति और reconquest of the आइलैंड्स.
Planning for the आक्रमण था begun in बहुत early 1941, by Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto.
He finally जीती assent इससे the नवल High Command by, among other things, threatening to resign.
The attack was स्वीकृत in the गर्मियाँ at an इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन and again at a second Conference in the fall.
simultaneously over the year, pilots were trained, and ships prepared for its execution.
Authority for the attack was granted at the दूसरी इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was not reached.
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the order to आक्रमण थी जारी at the शुरूआत of दिसम्बर.
A common दफ्तर stapler
A common स्कूल stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins चादरें of पेपर or समान सामग्री by driving a thin metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends.
Staplers are widely प्रयुक्त in सरकारी, कारोबार, offices, homes and schools.
The word `` stapler '' can दरअसल refer to a number of different devices of varying uses.
In addition to joining paper sheets together, staplers can also be used in a surgical setting to जुड़ें ऊतक साथ साथ सर्जिकल स्टेपल्स to बंद a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
typically, सबसे staplers are used to join multiple sheets of paper.
Paper staplers come in two पृथक प्रकार : हस्तचालित और इलेक्ट्रिक.
Manual staplers are normally hand-held, although models that are used जबकि नियत on a डेस्क or अन्य सतह are not uncommon.
इलेक्ट्रिक staplers मौजूद in a variety of different designs and models.
Their primary operating function is to join large numbers of paper चादरें साथ in रैपिड उत्तराधिकार.
Some इलेक्ट्रिक staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 sheets at a time.
Swallowing, known scientifically as deglutition, is the प्रक्रम in the इंसान or एनिमल देह that makes something pass from the mouth, to the pharynx, and into the esophagus, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails and the object goes through the श्वासनली, तब choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the human body it is नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of पेन्सिलवेनिया, थी a नेता of the कट्टरपंथी रिपब्लिकन faction of the Republican Party and a fierce opponent of slavery.
He was एक of the सबसे influential members in the history of Congress.
as अध्यक्ष of the शक्तिशाली हाउस तरीके और अर्थात् कमेटी, स्टीवंस, a witty, sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party leader, dominated the House from 1861 until his death.
He wrote much of the financial विधान कि सशुल्क लिये the American Civil War.
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the प्रधान नेताओ of the कट्टरपंथी republicans during the war and Reconstruction era.
Scholarly views of स्टीवंस have swung sharply since his death as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed.
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism, depicting स्टीवंस as a विलेन लिये उसके वकालत of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This highly negative characterization आयोजित sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist स्कूल in the 1950s led to a दमदार धनात्मक सराहना of Stevens ' work on civil rights for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the Freedmen दौरान पुनर्निर्माण, the तभी सदस्य of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि कभी to have महरूम known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
Overview of the अनुवाद of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the अनुवाद of mRNA and the synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular जीवविज्ञान और आनुवंशिकी, अनुवाद is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins.
It is part of the प्रक्रम of जीन अभिव्यक्ति.
In translation, messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is decoded by the राइबोसोम to उपज a विशिष्ट अमीनो एसिड कड़ी, or polypeptide, that will later fold into an active protein.
In bacteria, translation occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm, where the विशाल और छोटी subunits of the ribosome are located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, अनुवाद occurs आरपार the झिल्ली of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis.
The राइबोसोम facilitates डिकोडिंग by inducing the बाइंडिंग of trnas with complementary anticodon sequences to that of the mRNA.
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the mrna गुजरता through और is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape.
In many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer membrane of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide अंदर लिये later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed RNA, such as transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, and small nuclear RNA, do not undergo अनुवाद into प्रोटीन.
Translation proceeds in चार phases : दीक्षा, elongation, translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain, or polypeptide that is the product of translation ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes और समवेत into प्रोटीन.
In activation, the correct amino acid is covalently bonded to the सही ट्रांसफ़र rna ( tRNA ).
The अमीनो एसिड is joined by इसके carboxyl group to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond.
When the tRNA has an amino एसिड linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the छोटी subunit of the राइबोसोम बाइंडिंग to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens जब the a साईट of the राइबोसोम चेहरों a रोकें codon ( UAA, UAG, or UGA ).
no trna can recognize or bind to this codon.
बजाय, the रोकें codon induces the बाइंडिंग of a रिलीज factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex.
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting अनुवाद ; ये शामिल anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, and puromycin, among others.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a अलग ढांचा इससे कि of eukaryotic ribosomes, और यूँ एंटीबायोटिक can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
A multimedia message on a मोबाईल फोन.
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard way to send संदेश कि शामिल मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to and from mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability that allowed exchange of text संदेश तभी up to 160 वर्ण in लंबाई.
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets, although it is also popular as a method of delivering न्यूज और entertainment सामग्री सहित वीडियो, तस्वीरें, टेक्स्ट pages and ringtones.
The standard is विकसित by the खोलें मोबाईल गठबंधन ( OMA ), although during development it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an infectious बीमारी अद्वितीय to इंसानो, caused by either of दो वायरस variants, Variola major and Variola minor.
The disease is also known by the Latin names variola or variola वीरा, निकला इससे varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally known in English as the `` चेचक '' or `` रेड प्लेग '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was first used in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring मामला of smallpox ( variola नाबालिग ) थी diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
Smallpox localized in small blood बरतन of the स्किन और in the मुँह and throat.
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular खाज and, later, raised fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a more गंभीर बीमारी और रै an overall मृत्यु rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, और क्यूबन खुजली ) जिससे मारता परिचय 1 % of इसके पीड़ितों.
Long-term जटिलताओं of V. प्रमुख संक्रमण शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring, and limb deformities due to arthritis and osteomyelitis हैं कम आम जटिलताओं, seen in about 2–5 % of cases.
smallpox is believed to have emerged in human populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest शारीरिक evidence of it is probably the pustular rash on the mummified body of Pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt.
The disease मारे an अनुमानित 400,000 europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th century ( including five reigning monarchs ), and was responsible for a third of all blindness.
Of all those संक्रमित, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from the disease.
Smallpox थी जिम्मेदार लिये an अनुमानित 300–500 लाख deaths during the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) estimated that 15 लाख लोगों contracted the बीमारी और कि दो million died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the जो certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated, the अन्य होने rinderpest, जिससे थी घोषित eradicated in 2011.
`` i want to थाम अपना हाथ '' is a song by the English rock band the Beatles.
Written by John Lennon और पॉल mccartney, और अंकित in अक्तूबर 1963, it was the first Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment.
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the British record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million विक्रेता `` वो loves तुम ``, the बीटल्स ' पिछला uk सिंगल, जिससे थी having a resurgent वर्तनी in the शीर्ष स्थिति following तीव्र media coverage of the group.
Taking दो सप्ताह to dislodge its predecessor, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' stayed at number one for five weeks and remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks in total.
It was also the समूह 's पहला अमरीकी क्रमांक एक, प्रवेश the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry.
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven weeks — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '', a reverse scenario of कया था occurred in ब्रिटेन, और remained in the us चार्ट लिये a कुल of पंद्रह सप्ताह.
`` I want to थाम अपना हाथ '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single worldwide.
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त राज्य in the लेट 1950s और जारी जबतक the जल्दी 1970s.
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles हैं भी हल्का than an स्वतंत्र सामने बर्खास्तगी ), हालांकि a उठाया भण्डार सामने बर्खास्तगी is आम as well.
Common weight reduction techniques include fiberglass body panels, stripped इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass खिड़कियाँ ( sometimes रंग tinted ).
क्युकी वे यहूद primarily निर्मित लिये racing, these cars typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful one, the existing stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both.
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical ईंधन इंजेक्शन, ऐसे as एक इससे algon, hilborn, or Crower.
With form being dictated by function, their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly, largely due to front ends being raised higher than भण्डार, to assist in the वज़न ट्रांसफ़र दौरान रैपिड त्वरण ( रेसिंग ).
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the front fender खूब is a आम characteristic of gassers, as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes, pearls, and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
The name arose क्युकी वे competed in a गैसोलीन -fueled drag racing class, rather than one using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the पूर्ववर्ती of the modern Funny Car.
twelve-lead ईकेजी of a 26-year-old male
electrocardiography ( ईसीजी or ईकेजी इससे ) is a transthoracic ( आरपार the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time, as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body.
The recording produced by this noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ).
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats, as well as the size and position of the chambers, the presence of any क्षति to the दिल, और the प्रभाव of दवाएँ or डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts, but may also be performed on पशु, प्रायः लिये निदान of दिल abnormalities or research.
Donald जॉन ट्रम्प, sr. ( born जून 14, 1946 ) is an American business magnate, television personality and author.
He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization and the founder of ट्रम्प entertainment रिसॉर्ट.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, और भूमिका on the एनबीसी reality show The Apprentice have made him a well-known celebrity who was No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
ट्रम्प is the बेटे of फ्रेड ट्रम्प, a wealthy New York City real-estate developer.
He worked for his father 's firm, Elizabeth Trump & Son, while attending the Wharton School of the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया, और in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was दिए कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी in 1971 and renamed it The Trump Organization.
In 2010, Trump expressed an interest in बनने a प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in the 2012 चुनाव, though in May 2011, he announced he would not be a candidate.
In December 2011, ट्रम्प थी सुझाया as a संभावित वाइस अध्यक्षीय चयन by मिशेल Bachmann, if she were to win the Republican nomination.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by r & b singer-songwriter sam cooke, लिखा और पहला अंकित in 1963 और released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964.
Though only a modest hit लिये cooke in तुलना साथ his previous singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the दशकों चूंकि इसके रिलीज, और is # 12 on रोलिंग Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Steam rising from the nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और stored in the Earth.
Thermal energy is the energy that determines the तापमान of पदार्थ.
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the रूप of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ), अर्थ धरती, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding cooler rock.
The ऊँची तापमान और दबाव कारण some rock to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats चट्टान और जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times और लिये स्पेस हीटिंग चूंकि प्राचीन Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
विश्वव्यापी, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग, स्पेस हीटिंग, स्पा, औद्योगिक processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, चिरस्थायी, और environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन रै historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.
Recent technological advances have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर for applications such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the धरती, लकिन ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global वार्मिंग if widely तैनात in प्लेस of चट्टान fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply मानवता 's उर्जा needs, लकिन तभी a बहुत छोटी fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and exploration for deep resources is बहुत महंगी.
Forecasts for the भविष्य of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
पायलट कार्यक्रम जैसे eweb 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन शक्ति कार्यक्रम show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the पास्ट दो दशकों.
In 2001, geothermal energy cost between two और टेन सेंट प्रति सम्पात.
Ownership of property may be private, सामूहिक, or आम और the प्रॉपर्टी may be वस्तुएँ, land/real estate, or intellectual property.
Determining ownership in law involves determining जो रै निश्चित अधिकारों और कर्तव्य over the property.
ये अधिकारों और कर्तव्य, sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle of rights ', can be separated and held by different parties.
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers, प्लेटो और अरस्तू, जो आयोजित अलग राय on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities, while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) thought निजी प्रॉपर्टी सक्रिय लोगों to प्राप्त the पूरा लाभ of their labor.
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” problem, where people tend to degrade common प्रॉपर्टी अधिक than वे do निजी property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for example, a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property, depending on his worldview, might be अधिक दिलचस्पी in short-term वित्तीय लाभ than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an नजर toward अन्य 's concerns ( e.g., those of future generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership, he left open सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate प्रॉपर्टी between कया is निजी और आम and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society.
Over the millennia, and across cultures what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the मूलाधार of प्राचीन और आधुनिक समाजों ऐसे as धन, trade, debt, bankruptcy, the criminality of theft, and private vs. public property.
Ownership is the key building block in the development of the capitalist socio-economic प्रणाली.
Adam Smith stated that one of the पवित्र कानून of इंसाफ थी to guard a person 's property and possessions.
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly जटिल : एक can लाभ, ट्रांसफ़र और खोना स्वामित्व of property in a number of ways.
To acquire property one can purchase it with धन, व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, प्राप्त it as a तोहफा, steal it, find it, make, it or homestead it.
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money, exchanging it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, giving it as a तोहफा, होने robbed of it, it, or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in that the owner of कोई प्रॉपर्टी होगा भी अपना the आर्थिक लाभ of that property.
`` कया 's my नाम ? '' is a सोंग अंकित by barbadian recording artist Rihanna, for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the song was released as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे लाउड on अक्तूबर 29, 2010 through Def Jam Recordings.
The R & B सोंग थी उत्पादित by the नॉर्वेजियाई उत्पादन duo स्टारगेट, और थी written by the duo along with Ester Dean, Traci Hale, and Drake.
Lyrically, it incorporates विषयवस्तु of sexual intercourse and romance.
Music critics gave the song positive reviews, citing it some of Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ; there was a praise regarding इसके रोमांटिक प्रकृति, as खूब as its sexual tones.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success और अव्वल the us बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट, giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one single in 2010, as well as her eighth overall on the chart.
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and the United Kingdom and पहुँचे the शीर्ष पाँच in कनाडा, आयरलैंड, नई जीलैंड, नार्वे और Slovakia.
The song received a nomination at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन rap/sung Collaboration.
An accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो, निर्देशित by फिलिप andelman, portrays a रोमांटिक एनकाउंटर between रिहाना and Drake in a grocery store along with romantic scenes between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the Atlantic, including शनिवार रात्रि सजीव in अमेरिका और the श्रेणी सात finale of the x फ़ैक्टर in the United Kingdom.
The latter performance resulted in an छानबीन इससे the देश 's मीडिया नियामक, ofcom, लिये the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit.
A गणितीय निरंतर is a खास क्रमांक, usually a real number, that is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
Constants arise in many different areas of mathematics, with constants such as e ( गणितीय निरंतर ) | और pi| occurring in ऐसे विविध contexts as भूगोल, number theory and calculus.
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '', and कया makes a निरंतर `` दिलचस्प '', is ultimately a पदार्थ of taste, and some mathematical constants are notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest.
The more popular constants have been studied throughout the आयु और computed to many decimal places.
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually are also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ).
Elections to the United States Senate were held on नवम्बर 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special election on जनवरी 19, 2010 in मैसाचुसेट्स थी held earlier in the year. )
Thirty-four of the seats were for six-year terms to the Senate 's `` क्लास तीन '', और तीन यहूद खास चुनावों for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or यहूद पराजित in the प्राथमिक ) and 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ).
After the previous elections ( in 2008 ), the United States Senate was composed of 58 डेमोक्रेट, 40 republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
Republicans won four seats held by retiring Democrats और republicans पराजित दो लाज़िम Democrats.
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994 चुनावों और भी the पहला समय चूंकि कि चुनाव कि republicans successfully defended all of their own seats.
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to gain seats and the third consecutive mid-term election held in a अध्यक्ष 's पहला पद जहाँ republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican wins, however, the Democrats retained a बहुमत of the सीनेट साथ 51 सीटे plus 2 independents who caucus with them, compared to the 47 Republicans.
A solstice is an astronomical इवेंट कि occurs twice प्रत्येक साल as the Sun reaches its highest or lowest excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere.
As a result, on the दिन of the संक्रांति, the सूर्य appears to have पहुँचे इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम annual altitude in the sky above the horizon at local solar noon.
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to stand still ), because at the solstices, the Sun stands still in उतार ; कि is, the मौसमी गति of the सूर्य 's पाथ ( as देखी इससे धरती ) आता to a रोकें before reversing direction.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, हैं कनेक्ट साथ the सीज़न.
in अनेक संस्कृतियों the solstices चिह्नित either the beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer.
The term solstice can भी be प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव, as the date ( day ) when this occurs.
The day of the संक्रांति is either the longest दिन of the साल ( in summer ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29, 1935 ) is an American चट्टान और फेंकें और देश म्यूज़िक singer-songwriter और pianist.
He is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' and is often viewed as “rock & फेंकें 's पहला ग्रेट जंगली man”.
An early pioneer of rock and roll music, in 1956 Lewis made his पहला रिकार्डिंग at सूर्य रिकॉर्ड.
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the दक्षिण, लकिन it थी उसके 1957 hit `` पूरे Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed इस in कि same year when he recorded songs such as `` Great Balls of Fire ``, `` Breathless `` and `` High School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold more records than एल्विस प्रेस्ली at इस समय.
However, Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll करियर faltered in the वेक of उसके marriage to his young cousin.
He had little success in the charts following the कांड और his popularity quickly faded.
His live performance शुल्क plummeted इससे $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
In the meantime he थी determined to gain back some of his popularity.
During the early 60’s he did n't have much चार्ट कामयाबी साथ few exceptions such as `` What 'd I Say ``.
His live performances at this time यहूद increasingly wild and energetic.
His album Live at the Star क्लबों, हैम्बर्ग इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by many music journalists and fans as one of the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever.
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little कामयाबी, in 1968 लुईस made a transition into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited his career and throughout the late '60s and '70s he regularly अव्वल the country-western चार्ट.
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You ``, `` There Must Be More to Love Than This ``, `` होता तुम लो another मौका on me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll पास्ट साथ गीतों ऐसे as a कवर of the बिग bopper 's `` chantilly फीता `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``.
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiences around the संसार और स्टिल रिलीज नई albums.
One such album, titled Last Man खड़ा, is उसके बेहतरीन selling to date at over a million copies sold worldwide.
This was followed by Mean Old Man which has received some of the बेहतरीन बिक्री of lewis’s करियर.
Lewis has था a दर्जन सुनहरा रिकॉर्ड in दोनो चट्टान और देश, जीती अनेक Grammy awards, including a Lifetime Achievement Award.
Lewis was inducted into the Rock और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 1986, और उसके pioneering योगदान to the genre has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the फिल्म ग्रेट गेंदें of Fire, starring Dennis Quaid.
In 2003, Rolling Stone पत्रिका सूचीबद्ध उसके बक्सा नियत सब कातिल, No Filler : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of all time ``.
In 2004, वे क्रमित उसे क्रमांक 24 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar Quartet and the Class of '55 एल्बम, जिससे भी शामिल Johnny Cash, Carl Perkins, Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry Louis स्टीफंस, बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man पढना a समाचारपत्र with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The emancipation उदघोषणा थी an अनुक्रम जारी to सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ( including the Army and Navy ) of the United States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil War.
It was based on the अध्यक्ष 's संवैधानिक प्राधिकार as commander in chief of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free, and ordered the फौज ( और सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as फ़्री सब those enslaved in टेन राज्य कि यहूद स्टिल in विद्रोह, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under विद्रोह, लकिन as the फौज took कंट्रोल of confederate regions, the स्लेव in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions जहाँ विद्रोह had already been subdued were immediately emancipated, and over 3 million more were emancipated as the Union army advanced.
The Proclamation किया नहीं लागू to the पाँच स्लेव राज्य कि यहूद नहीं in विद्रोह, nor to सबसे regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did not compensate the स्वामी, किया नहीं itself गैरकानूनी गुलामी, and did not make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens.
It made the eradication of गुलामी an सुस्पष्ट युद्ध लक्ष्य, in जोड to the goal of reuniting the Union.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any राज्य of the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका कि किया नहीं वापसी to Union control by January 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed and issued January 1, 1863, took प्रभाव मगर in स्थितियाँ जहाँ the संघ था already ज़्यादातर regained control.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war, angered some Northern Democrats, energized anti-slavery शक्तियां, और weakened शक्तियां in यूरोपीय कि wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the spirits of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य, और led to many slaves escaping their masters and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by zack स्नाइडर और co-written by उसे और स्टीव Shibuya.
It is Snyder 's first film आधारित on an असली script.
The फिल्मी सितारों एमिली ब्राउनिंग, abbie Cornish, Jena Malone, Vanessa Hudgens, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a यंग स्त्री जो is वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी संस्था, as she makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy.
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX थिएटर in the संयुक्त राज्य at मध्यरात्रि on March 25, 2011.
it प्राप्त generally negative reviews from critics, but was a moderate box office success.
सामने और वापस of canon powershot A95, a typical pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress V96C digital back, an example of a पेशेवर डिजिटल कैमरा प्रणाली
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes video or still छायाचित्र by रिकॉर्डिंग बिंब on an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक image sensor.
Most cameras sold today are digital, and डिजिटल कैमरे हैं incorporated into many devices ranging from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an optical system, typically using a लेंस साथ a परिवर्तनीय diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device.
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of लाइट to the imager, बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the चित्र पिकअप यंत्र is इलेक्ट्रॉनिक rather than chemical.
However, unlike film cameras, digital cameras can प्रदर्शक बिंब on a स्क्रीन तत्काल बाद होने अंकित, और स्टोर और delete images from memory.
Many digital cameras can also रिकार्ड चलती वीडियो साथ ध्वनि.
Some digital cameras can crop और सिलाई तस्वीरें and perform other elementary image editing.
The inside and front of a Dell poweredge वेब सर्वर, a कंप्यूटर designed for rack mounting
Multiple web servers may be used for a high traffic website, यहाँ चार सूर्य आग x4200 सर्वर हैं installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application ) that helps to deliver वेब सामग्री कि can be पहुँचा through the Internet.
The most common use of web servers is to host websites, but there are other uses such as gaming, data storage or कार्यशील एंटरप्राइज़ अनुप्रयोग.
The American Red Cross ( ARC ), also known as the American National Red क्रॉस, is a humanitarian संगठन कि provides आपात सहायता, विपत्ति राहत and education inside the United States.
It is the designated u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the American Red Cross offers services in five other areas : community services that help the needy ; संचार सेवाएं और सुकून लिये सैन्य सदस्यों और उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण, प्रसंस्करण और वितरण of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness, health, and safety ; and international relief and development programs.
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code, Section 3001, the अमरीकी नेशनल रेड क्रॉस is governed by स्वयंसेवक और समर्थित by जातियाँ दान, आय इससे स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा training and products, and income from blood products.
The American Red क्रॉस is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The Chairman of the Board of Governors, सेवारत उसके दूसरी three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The current President और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी is गेल J. McGovern.
A rooster in कोसोवो
A rooster, showing wattles, earlobes और कंघी
A मुर्गा crowing ( with audio )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or cock ) is a पुरूष gallinaceous bird.
It usually refers to a पुरूष मुर्गा ( gallus gallus ).
Immature पुरूष मुर्गियों कम than one year old are called cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States, and the पद is widely प्रयुक्त throughout उत्तर अमेरिका, as खूब as Australia and New Zealand.
In the United Kingdom and Ireland the older term `` cockerel '' is अधिक commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in general use as the नाम लिये a पुरूष of अन्य प्रजाति of बर्ड, लिये उदाहरण `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to sleep at night, and is done by both sexes.
The rooster is polygamous, लकिन can नहीं गार्ड अनेक nests of eggs at once.
He guards the general area where his hens are nesting, और होगा आक्रमण अन्य roosters that enter his territory.
दौरान the दिन, he प्रायः sits on a high perch, usually 3–5 feet off the ground to serve as a lookout for his flock.
He will sound a distinctive सचेतक कॉल if परभक्षी are nearby.
the पोकीमॉन व्यापार कार्ड खेल ( पोकीमॉन tcg ) is a collectible कार्ड game based on the Pokémon video game series, first published in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan.
In the US, it was initially published by wizards of the coast, the कम्पनी that produces, in December 1998.
Nintendo took over प्रकाशन in जून 2003.
It is one of Nintendo 's last बाकी दमदार कड़ी to इसके विरासत as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer साथ इसके मुख्यालय in gaydon, Warwickshire, United Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is part of the Jaguar जमीन रोवर समूह, a subsidiary of tata Motors of India.
It is the दूसरी oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in the world ( after Jeep ).
The Land रोवर नाम थी originally प्रयुक्त by the रोवर कम्पनी लिये एक specific vehicle model, named simply the Land Rover, launched by Rover in 1948.
Over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a range of four-wheel-drive मॉडल, सहित the defender, डिस्कवरी, freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque.
Land Rovers are currently समवेत in the कम्पनी 's halewood और solihull पौधे, साथ शोध and development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 वाहनों विश्वव्यापी in 2009.
Although the brand originates इससे the असली 1948 मॉडल, जमीन रोवर as a company has only existed since 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the अंग्रेजों leyland मोटर निगम ( bl ) following leyland मोटर निगम ’s takeover of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models, and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s खूब प्रलेखित कारोबार परेशानियों prompted the स्थापना of a पृथक जमीन रोवर कम्पनी लकिन स्टिल under the BL umbrella, remaining part of the subsequent Rover Group in 1988, under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised.
In 1994 Rover Group plc was acquired by bmw.
In 2000, रोवर समूह थी broken-up by bmw और जमीन रोवर थी बेची to घाट Motor Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 घाट खरीदा the रोवर ब्रांड इससे BMW for around £6 million.
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands for the first time चूंकि 2000 जब the Rover group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, घाट बेची दोनो जमीन रोवर and Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors.
This sale also included the dormant रोवर ब्रांड
The cover of the पहला dvd संकलन released by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The नवीं ऋतु of the Bleach anime series is named.
The series is based on tite kubo 's manga साथ same name.
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki Abe and produced by TV Tokyo, dentsu, और स्टुडियो Pierrot.
The episodes ' प्लाट focuses on the परिचय of a नई आत्मा reaper कप्तान, shūsuke amagai, और the रहस्य surrounding the Kasumiōji clan, one of the families that constitute the nobility of Soul Society.
The season began airing on April 23, 2008 in Japan on TV टोकियो और ended on अक्तूबर 7, 2008.
The English adaptation of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी is licensed by viz मीडिया, और इस चाप began airing on August 28, 2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four episodes of the ऋतु, have महरूम released by aniplex ; the पहला dvd संकलन थी released on November 26, 2008 and the fifth on March 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be प्रकाशित by viz मीडिया on दिसम्बर 13, 2011.
The episodes use three टुकड़े of थीम म्यूज़िक : एक opening theme and two closing themes.
The opening theme is `` chu-bura `` by kelun.
The first closing theme is `` नारंगी '' by lil'b, प्रयुक्त लिये एपीसोड 168 to 179, and the second closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, used for the remainder of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit, prohibit, or otherwise regulate commercial sex, except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public अनुक्रम अपराधों, a अपराधों कि disrupts the अनुक्रम of a community.
it थी at एक time considered to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the नेवाडा Revised Statutes.
Only 8 काउंटी currently contain active brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, but some of these counties currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the देश.
As with other देशों, वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The East Coast of the United States, also known as the Eastern seaboard or the अटलांटिक seaboard और commonly shortened to East Coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean.
The states which have shoreline on the ईस्ट coast हैं, इससे उत्तर to दक्षिण, the u.S. states of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) was the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, जब he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in yorba लिंडा, California.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, Pat Nixon, moved to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the संघीय government in 1942.
he subsequently परोसा in the United States Navy during World War II.
Nixon was elected in California to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the alger hiss मामला स्थापित his reputation as a leading anti-communist, and elevated him to national prominence.
He was the कार्यशील mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election.
निक्सन served for eight years as vice president.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960, narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी, और खोया a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी और थी निर्वाचित.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the वियतनाम युद्ध, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the two nations, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
domestically, उसके प्रशासन generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों, और स्थापित the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with अपोलो 11, he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस खोजी.
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab आयल embargo, the इस्तीफा of उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, और a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग and removal from office.
After his resignation, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor, जेराल्ड घाट.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
He suffered a debilitating stroke on अप्रैल 18, 1994, और died four days later at the age of 81.
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft, Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the चयनात्मक serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( ssri ) class.
It was introduced to the market by फाइजर in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive, दहशत, और सोशल चिंता disorders in both adults and children.
In 2011, it was the second-most विहित antidepressant on the U.S. retail market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is समान to कि of पुरानी tricyclic antidepressants, but its side effects are much less pronounced.
मतभेद साथ नए antidepressants are subtler and also mostly confined to side effects.
Evidence suggests that sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than fluoxetine ( prozac ) for some subtypes of depression.
Treatment of दहशत विकार साथ sertraline परिणाम in a significant decrease of the number of panic attacks and in improved quality of life.
For obsessive-compulsive disorder, sertraline is not as effective as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन परिणाम have महरूम हासिल by combining these two treatments.
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic stress disorder, sertraline लीड to तभी modest सुधार in these conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric विकार और can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment.
Sertraline साझा the आम पक्ष प्रभाव और contraindications of अन्य ssris, साथ high rates of nausea, diarrhea, insomnia, and sexual side effects ; however, it does not cause weight gain, and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the drug was present in significant concentrations in fetal रक्त, और थी भी संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर रेट of various birth defects.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline लिये अवसाद may be संबद्ध साथ a higher rate of suicidality.
The Five heartbeats is a 1991 musical नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by Robert Townsend, who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century Fox, the film 's main cast includes Townsend, Michael Wright, Leon Robinson, Harry J. Lennix, Tico Wells, हेरोल्ड निकोलस of the निकोलस भाइयो, और diahann Carroll.
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells, The Temptations, Four Tops, Wilson Pickett, James Brown, Frankie Lymon, sam cooke और अन्य ) फ़ॉलो the तीन दशक करियर of the r & b गायन समूह the पाँच heartbeats.
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist, Donald `` बतख '' matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ), जो serves as a narrator throughout the film.
however, a बहुमत of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत in a consecutive time line as opposed to traditional flash backs.
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the film 's साउंडट्रैक, सहित singles ऐसे as `` a दिल is a हाउस लिये प्रेम ``, `` we have n't Finished Yet '', and `` Nothing But Love ''.
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29, 1991 however it was not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th वर्षगांठ.
The movie received मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ इससे critics.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) was an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the पहला U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set रेस रिकॉर्ड in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is माना to be एक of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked सचिवालय the 35th बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी of the 20th सदी, the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in the blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
He was foaled at The Meadow in कैरोलीन County, Virginia.
जैसे उसके प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध, Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire, nasrullah, is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन turcotte, साथ साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and श्वेत checkered रंगों और उसके दूल्हे थी Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, and weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
A typical 12 V, 40 ah lead-acid car बैटरी
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable बैटरी कि आपूर्तियाँ इलेक्ट्रिक energy to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting, lighting, ignition ) to power the प्रारंभ मोटर, the लाइट्स, और the प्रज्वलन प्रणाली of a vehicle’s engine.
Automotive SLI batteries are usually lead-acid type, and are made of six गैल्वानी कोशिकाएं in श्रेणी to provide a 12 volt system.
Each कोशिका provides 2.1 volts for a total of 12.6 volt at full charge.
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors, often equipped साथ डीज़ल इंजन, may have दो बैटरी in श्रेणी लिये a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली, or may have समानांतर strings of batteries.
lead-acid बैटरी हैं बना up of प्लेटों of सीसे और पृथक प्लेटों of सीसे dioxide, which are submerged into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water.
This causes a chemical reaction that releases electrons, allowing them to flow through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ the सामग्री of the प्लेटों, changing their surface to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into lead dioxide and lead.
With the plates restored to their असली कंडीशन, the process may now be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new batteries, diverts toxic सीसे इससे landfills, और रोकता रिस्क of improper disposal.
Full-time employment is नियुक्ति in जिससे a व्यक्ति works a न्यूनतम क्रमांक of hours defined as such by his/her employer.
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible workers, such as annual leave, sickleave, and health insurance.
Full-time jobs हैं प्रायः माना करियर.
They generally pay more than part-time कार्य, और प्रायः carry अधिक घंटों प्रति सप्ताह.
The Fair Labor Standards अधिनियम ( flsa ) करता नहीं define full-time employment or part-time employment.
This is a matter generally to be संकल्पित by the नियोक्ता ( us Department of Labor ).
The definition by नियोक्ता can vary और is generally published in a company 's Employee Handbook.
Companies commonly require इससे 30–35 or 40 घंटों प्रति सप्ताह to be पारिभाषित as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits.
full-time औकात varies between कम्पनी and is often based on the shift the employee must work during each work week.
The `` standard '' कार्य सप्ताह consists of पाँच eight-hour days, commonly served between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it may भी consist of as छोटी as नौ घंटों लिये a total of a 36 hour work week.
Twelve-hour shifts are often three days per सप्ताह, जबतक the कम्पनी रै the इरादे of paying out the employee overtime.
Overtime is legally सशुल्क आउट anytime an employee works more than 40 hours per week.
The legal minimum for ओवरटाइम starts at Base Pay + One-Half.
The increased payout is माना to compensate थोड़ा for the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts.
Shifts can also be बहुत irregular, as in खुदरा, लकिन हैं स्टिल full-time if the required number of hours is reached.
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying बेरोजगारी लाभ to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of समुद्री मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' और kampos अर्थ `` sea monster ''.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the संघीय u.S. ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the नेशनल implementing विधान for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
माया numerals
माया numerals हैं a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
The numerals are made up of three प्रतीकों ; शून्य ( शेल आकार ), एक ( a बिन्दु ) और पाँच ( a bar ).
For example, thirteen is लिखा as तीन dots in a आड़ा row above two horizontal lines stacked above each other.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as lbj, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a स्थिति he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि, सीनेटर, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961, सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट बहुमत नेता, दो as सीनेट अल्पसंख्यक नेता and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22, 1963, समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके own right, winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` Great समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment, '' his coercion of शक्तिशाली राजनेता in अनुक्रम to अग्रिम legislation.
Meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति based especially on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों बाद 1965, और अपराधों दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया demands for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक, he ended his bid for reelection.
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड निक्सन थी elected to succeed him.
इतिहासकारों argue कि जॉनसन 's presidency marked the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of his domestic policies.
Progesterone also ज्ञात as p4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन शामिल in the मादा menstrual साईकिल, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a class of हार्मोन पुकारा progestogens, और is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ Sesame Street.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) लम्बा उज्जवल primrose-yellow बर्ड.
He can रोलर स्केट, बर्फ स्केट, dance, sing, write poetry, draw and even ride a unicycle.
But despite this wide array of talents, he is prone to frequent misunderstandings, on एक अवसर भी गायन the वर्णमाला as एक बिग long शब्द ( इससे the सोंग called `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
He lives in a large घोंसला पीछे the 123 तिल गली brownstone and has a teddy bear named Radar.
webtrends is a निजी कम्पनी headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States.
It provides वेब, सोशल, और मोबाईल analytics and other software solutions related to marketing intelligence.
The कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1993 and now serves more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the second major crusade शुभारम्भ इससे यूरोपीय.
The Second Crusade was started in जवाब to the पतन of the काउंटी of Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi.
The county had been founded during the पहला crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
While it was the first Crusader state to be संस्थापित, it थी भी the पहला to पतन.
The Second Crusade was घोषित by पोप यूजीन iii, और थी the पहला of the क्रूसेड to be led by European kings, namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany, with help from a number of other European nobles.
The armies of the two kings marched separately आरपार यूरोपीय.
After crossing बीज़ान्टिन territory into आनातोलिया, दोनो सेना were separately defeated by the Seljuq Turks.
The main Western ईसाई सोर्स, odo of deuil, और syriac ईसाई स्त्रोत अर्जी that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress, particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem and, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised आक्रमण on दमिश्क.
The crusade in the east was a विफलता लिये the crusaders और a great victory for the Muslims.
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of Jerusalem and give rise to the Third crusade at the समाप्त of the 12th century.
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a संयुक्त फ़ोर्स of 13,000 फ्लेमिश, frisian, Norman, English, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from England, by ship, to the पावन जमीन, the फौज रोका और helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon, expelling its Moorish occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an American multinational retail निगम कि रनों जंजीरों of विशाल छूट विभाग stores and warehouse stores.
The company is the world 's third largest public corporation, according to the Fortune Global 500 list in 2012, the biggest private employer in the संसार साथ over दो लाख कर्मचारी, और is the largest retailer in the world.
walmart remains a family-owned कारोबार, as the company is controlled by the Walton family, who own a 48 percent stake in Walmart.
it is भी एक of the world 's most valuable companies.
The कम्पनी थी संस्थापित by sam वाल्टन in 1962, incorporated on October 31, 1969, and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in bentonville, Arkansas.
Walmart is also the largest किराना रिटेलर in the United States.
In 2009, it उत्पन्न 51 प्रतिशत of इसके us $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from grocery business.
It also owns and operates the sam 's क्लबों खुदरा warehouses in North America.
By 1988, wal-mart थी the सबसे लाभप्रद retailer in the US, and by November 1990, it outsold K-mart.
By 1991 it outsold Sears in retail, making it America 's largest रिटेलर, a भेद it स्टिल holds.
walmart रै 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 countries, under 55 different names.
The company operates under the walmart नाम in the United States, including the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
It operates in Mexico as Walmex, in the United Kingdom as Asda, in जापानी as seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It has wholly owned operations in Argentina, Brazil, और कनाडा.
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom, South America, and China are highly successful, whereas ventures in जर्मनी और दक्षिण कोरियाई यहूद unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ), थी a उत्तरी आयरिश संगीतकार, सबसे widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a career dating back to the 1960s, Moore played with artists सहित फिल lynott और ब्रायन downey दौरान उसके किशोर, अग्रणी उसे to सदस्यताएँ साथ the आयरिश bands स्किड पंक्ति और पतला lizzy on तीन पृथक अवसरों.
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as B.B. King, Albert King, Colosseum II, जार्ज हैरिसन और ग्रेग झील, as खूब as having a कामयाब सोलो career.
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians, including a cameo appearance playing the lead गिटार सोलो on `` वो 's my baby `` इससे traveling wilburys आवाज़. 3.
An example of rack आरोहित सर्वर
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and संगठन to मेक उनके जालस्थल accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing अंतरजाल connectivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच, पुकारा colocation, भी ज्ञात as आवास in लैटिन अमेरिका or France.
The scope of web hosting सेवाएं varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, where files can be अपलोड via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or साथ minimal प्रसंस्करण.
Many Internet सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) प्रस्ताव इस service free to subscribers.
Individuals and संगठन may भी obtain वेब page hosting from alternative service providers.
निजी वेब साईट होस्टिंग is typically free, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher व्यय depending upon the आकार और प्रकार of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये निजी वेब पृष्ठों.
A complex site calls लिये a अधिक व्यापक पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस support और application development platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums और सामग्री management.
Also, Secure Sockets Layer ( एसएसएल ) is typically प्रयुक्त for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or कंट्रोल फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing scripts, as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly प्रयुक्त by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all महिलाओं 's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians हैं भी स्त्रीरोग, अर्थ they perform in both specialties.
In the United States, these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – may 30, 1912 ), यहूद दो अमरीकी भाइयो, आविष्कारक, and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the world 's first successful airplane and making the first controlled, powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight, on December 17, 1903.
From 1905 to 1907, the भाइयो विकसित उनके उड़ती यंत्र into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft, the Wright brothers यहूद the पहला to इफ़तेरा वायुयान नियंत्रण कि बना fixed-wing संचालित flight possible.
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their invention of three-axis कंट्रोल, जिससे सक्रिय the पायलट to steer the वायुयान effectively and to maintain its equilibrium.
This method became standard और remains मानक on fixed-wing वायुयान of all kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical work, the Wright brothers focused on developing a reliable विधि of पायलट कंट्रोल as the कुंजी to solving `` the उड़ती problem ''.
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the समय जो put अधिक जोर on विकासशील शक्तिशाली इंजन.
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel, the Wrights also collected अधिक सटीक आंकड़ा than कोई पहले, enabling उन्हें to डिज़ाइन और निर्माण विंग्स and propellers that were more efficient than any before.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did not claim invention of a flying machine, but rather, the invention of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a उड़ती यंत्र 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working for years in their दूकान साथ मुद्रण दबाता, साइकिल, मोटर्स, और other machinery.
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief कि an अस्थिर गाडी जैसे a उड़ती यंत्र could be नियंत्रित और balanced with practice.
From 1900 until their first powered flights in लेट 1903, वे conducted extensive glider परीक्षण that also developed their skills as pilots.
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became an important part of the team, building उनके पहला वायुयान इंजन in बंद सहयोग with the brothers.
The Wright brothers ' status as आविष्कारक of the वायुयान रै महरूम subject to counter-claims by various parties.
Much controversy persists over the अनेक स्पर्धा दावा of जल्दी aviators.
America 's Next Top Model, साईकिल 12 is the बारहवीं साईकिल of अमेरिका 's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network.
It premiered on March 4, 2009.
the साईकिल 's कैच phrase is `` Get In The Fold. ''
The cycle 's promotional सोंग is महिला गागा 's `` The Fame ''.
The पुरस्कार लिये this cycle are:
A मॉडलिंग अनुबंध साथ elite मॉडल Management.
A fashion स्प्रेड और cover in Seventeen.
A 100,000 contract साथ covergirl कॉस्मेटिक्स.
The first half of the cycle took place in New York City, moving the दिखाएँ वापस इससे लॉस एंजिल्स पिछला season.
The international गंतव्य लिये इस साईकिल is são पाउलो, ब्राज़ील, the series first visit to South America.
The number of girls was reduced to 13, the first समय चूंकि साईकिल 9, बाद होने कायम at 14 in the last two cycles.
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova participated as न्यायधीश.
the विजेता थी 20-year-old teyona Anderson from Woodstown, New Jersey.
This season averaged 4.35 लाख दर्शक प्रति episode.
Exxon Mobil Corporation, or exxonmobil, is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय आयल और गैस corporation headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil company, and was formed on November 30, 1999, by the merger of Exxon and Mobil.
It is affiliated with Imperial Oil जिससे operates in कनाडा.
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013, became the largest publicly traded कम्पनी by मार्केट capitalization in the world.
the कम्पनी is क्रमित # 5 globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013.
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and, at तब ( 2007 ) दरों of उत्पादन, हैं अपेक्षित to पिछला over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily refining capacity of, Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the संसार, a शीर्षक कि थी भी संबद्ध साथ मानक आयल चूंकि इसके incorporation in 1870.
exxonmobil is the largest of the संसार 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921 million BOE ( barrels of oil equivalent ).
in 2008, इस थी लगभग 3 % of संसार production, which is less than several of the largest state-owned petroleum companies.
जब क्रमित by आयल और गैस reserves it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s सबसे hated corporations, समर्थ to determine अमरीकी विदेशी नीति और the fate of entire nations ''.
In terms of its environmental record, exxonmobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships, such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief executive until 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical about जलवायु बदलें और disliked सरकारी interference at any level ''.
The कम्पनी थी widely criticized लिये इसके slow जवाब to सफ़ाई its 1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska.
This आलेख is परिचय the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare.
For the modern reconstruction in लंदन, देखिए शेक्सपियर 's Globe.
लिये अन्य उपयोग, देखिए ग्लोब Theatre ( disambiguation ).
The Globe Theatre was a थिएटर in लंदन संबद्ध with William Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain 's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son, निकोलस brend और पोता Sir Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same साईट by जून 1614 और बंद in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named `` शेक्सपियर 's ग्लोब ``, खोली in 1997 लगभग इससे the साईट of the असली थिएटर.
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by फ़्रैंक capra, आधारित on the छोटी स्टोरी `` the महानतम तोहफा ``, जिससे फिलिप वैन doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945.
The film is considered one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional देखने दौरान the क्रिसमस ऋतु, alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol.
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey, a man who has given up उसके सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और जिनकी निकट आत्महत्या on क्रिसमस संध्या brings about the intervention of his guardian angel, Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ).
क्लेरेंस shows जार्ज सब the lives he has touched and how different life in his community of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff प्रतियोगिता at the समय of इसके रिलीज, the फिल्मी रै आइये to be regarded as a classic and is a staple of Christmas television around the world.
Theatrically, the film 's break-even पाइंट थी दरअसल $ 6.3 लाख, लगभग twice the production cost, a figure it never came close to achieving in its initial release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the पूरा बक्सा दफ्तर विफलता कि आज everyone मानता... it थी initially a प्रमुख निराशा और पुष्टि, at least to the studios, that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see, money-making events they once were. ''
The film was nominated for पाँच ऑस्कर और रै महरूम पहचाना by the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान as एक of the 100 best American films ever made, placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list, and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time.
Data गोदाम अवलोकन
In कम्प्यूटिंग, a आंकड़ा गोदाम or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा गोदाम ( DW, DWH, or EDW ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis.
It is a central repository of data which is created by integrating आंकड़ा इससे एक or अधिक disparate sources.
Data warehouses store current as खूब as ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना चर्चित रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन रिपोर्टिंग such as annual and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational systems ( ऐसे as विपणन, बिक्री etc., shown in the figure to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational data store for अतिरिक्त परिचालन पहले वे are used in the DW for reporting.
The ठेठ etl -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग स्टेजिंग, data integration, and access layers to house its key functions.
The staging layer or स्टेजिंग डेटाबेस स्टोर्स कच्चा आंकड़ा extracted from each of the disparate source data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate आंकड़ा सेट by transforming the आंकड़ा इससे the स्टेजिंग परत प्रायः storing इस रूपांतरित आंकड़ा in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database, often called the data warehouse database, where the data is arranged into hierarchical समूह प्रायः पुकारा आयाम and into facts and aggregate facts.
The combination of facts and आयाम is sometimes called a star schema.
the अभिगम परत helps users retrieve data.
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source systems does not require etl, स्टेजिंग databases, or operational data store databases.
The integrated data source प्रणालियों may be माना to be a भाग of a distributed operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data आभासीकरण विधि may be प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the वितरित एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों to consolidate and aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables.
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse, the integrated source आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the आंकड़ा warehouse are all integrated since there is no transformation of dimensional or reference data.
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the aggregate data of the आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional आंकड़ा of the एकीकृत source data systems.
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided into data marts.
Data marts स्टोर subsets of आंकड़ा from a warehouse.
This definition of the data गोदाम focuses on data storage.
The main source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged and made available for use by managers and other कारोबार पेशेवर लिये आंकड़ा खनन, ऑनलाइन विश्लेषणात्मक प्रसंस्करण, मार्केट शोध और निर्णय support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, and to manage the आंकड़ा शब्दकोष हैं भी माना essential components of a data warehousing system.
Many references to data warehousing उपयोग इस broader context.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence टूल्स, टूल्स to निकालें, रूपांतरण and load data into the repository, and tools to manage and retrieve metadata.
Portland स्टोन पाषाण on the आइल of पोर्टलैंड, England
An abandoned निर्माण कुल पाषाण near Adelaide, South Australia
A पाषाण is a प्रकार of open-pit mine from which rock or minerals are extracted.
Quarries are generally used for extracting building materials, such as dimension stone, निर्माण कुल, riprap, बालू, and gravel.
वे हैं प्रायः collocated साथ कंक्रीट और डामर पौधे due to the requirement for large amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as खोलें pit mines.
The word quarry can include भूमिगत quarrying लिये स्टोन, ऐसे as नहाना स्टोन.
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural समूह सम्बन्धित to mormonism, the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the latter दिन संत गति of restorationist Christianity, which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s.
After Smith 's death in 1844 the mormons followed ब्रिघम Young to what would become the Utah Territory.
Today Mormons are understood to be members of The गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
Some mormons हैं भी either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah, and उत्तर अमेरिका रै अधिक mormons than कोई अन्य महाद्वीप, हालांकि the बहुमत of Mormons live outside the United States.
Mormons have विकसित a दमदार sense of communality that stems from their doctrine and history.
During the 19th century mormon converts tended to एकत्रित to a सेंट्रल भौगोलिक स्थान, and between 1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage, a form of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources to serving in their church, and many यंग mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing मिशन.
Mormons have a health code that eschews alcoholic पेय, तम्बाकू, coffee, tea, and other addictive substances.
They tend to be very family-oriented, and have strong connections across पीढियां और साथ विस्तारित परिवार, परावर्तक of उनके विश्वास कि परिवारों can be sealed साथ beyond death and throughout eternity.
mormons भी have a सख्त विधि of शुद्धता, requiring abstention from sexual relations outside of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as Christian, though some of उनके beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity.
Mormons believe in the Bible, as खूब as अन्य किताबे of scripture, such as the Book of Mormon.
They have a अद्वितीय दृश्य of cosmology, and believe that all people are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the example of Jesus Christ, and accepting उसके प्रायश्चित through ordinances ऐसे as बपतिस्मा.
They मानना कि मसीह 's गिरिजाघर थी लौटी through जोसेफ स्मिथ, and is guided by living prophets and apostles.
Central to Mormon faith is the विश्वास कि परमेश्वर speaks to his children and answers their prayers.
In financial accounting, एसेट हैं आर्थिक संसाधन.
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of होने स्वामित्व or नियंत्रित to उपज मान और कि is आयोजित to have positive economic value is considered an asset.
Simply stated, assets represent value of ownership that can be परिवर्तित into नकदी ( हालांकि नकदी itself is also considered an asset ).
The balance sheet of a कड़ रिकॉर्ड the monetaryj.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There are अलग विधि of assessing the मौद्रिक मान of the एसेट अंकित on the Balance Sheet.
In some cases, the Historical Cost is used ; such that the value of the एसेट जब it थी खरीदा in the past is used as the monetary value.
In other instances, the उपस्थित मेला मार्केट मान of the एसेट is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
value of the एसेट स्वामित्व by the firm.
It is money and other valuables belonging to an व्यक्तिगत or business.
Two major asset वर्ग हैं ठोस एसेट and intangible assets.
Tangible assets contain various subclasses, सहित वर्तमान एसेट और फिक्स्ड assets.J.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 Current assets शामिल inventory, जबकि फिक्स्ड एसेट शामिल ऐसे वस्तुएं as इमारतें और उपकरण.J. downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and rights that have a मान to the कड़ क्युकी वे दे the कड़ some kind of advantage in the market place.
Examples of intangible assets are goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, patents and कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम, और वित्तीय एसेट, सहित ऐसे वस्तुएं as खाते receivable, bonds and stocks.
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell that प्रक्रियाओं और transmits सूचना through विद्युत और रासायनिक सिग्नल.
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse, a specialized कनेक्शन साथ अन्य कोशिकाएं.
Neurons कनेक्ट to प्रत्येक अन्य to form neural networks.
Neurons are the core components of the बेचैन प्रणाली, जिससे शामिल the दिमाग, spinal cord, and peripheral ganglia.
A number of specialized प्रकार of न्यूरॉन्स मौजूद : संवेदी न्यूरॉन्स respond to टच, ध्वनि, लाइट और numerous अन्य stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain.
Motor neurons प्राप्त सिग्नल इससे the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord, cause muscle contractions, and affect glands.
Interneurons connect neurons to other neurons within the same प्रदेश of the दिमाग or स्पाइनल cord.
A typical neuron possesses a cell body ( प्रायः पुकारा the सोम ), dendrites, and an axon.
Dendrites are thin structures that arise from the cell body, often extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching अनेक टाइम्स, giving वृद्धि to a जटिल `` dendritic पेड़ ''.
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a site called the axon उभरकर और ट्रेवल्स लिये a अलहदा, as दूर as 1 meter in humans or even more in other species.
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise to multiple dendrites, but never to more than एक axon, हालांकि the axon may शाखा सैंकड़ों of टाइम्स पहले it terminates.
At the majority of synapses, सिग्नल हैं भेजा इससे the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many exceptions to these rules : neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses कि कनेक्ट an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons are electrically excitable, maintaining वोल्टेज अनुपात आरपार उनके झिल्लियों by अर्थात् of metabolically driven ion pumps, which combine with ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium, potassium, chloride, and calcium.
परिवर्तन in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the function of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount, an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is उत्पन्न, जिससे ट्रेवल्स rapidly साथ the कोशिका 's axon, और activates सिनेप्टिक connections with other cells when it arrives.
Neurons do नहीं undergo कोशिका division.
In सबसे मामले, न्यूरॉन्स हैं generated by special types of stem cells.
Astrocytes, a type of glial cell, have भी महरूम observed to फेरे into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas, the hippocampus and घ्राण बल्ब, वहीँ is दमदार प्रमाण लिये पीढी of substantial संख्याएँ of new neurons.
Super Bowl XLIII was an American फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स और the नेशनल Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
the स्टीलर्स पराजित the Cardinals by the score of 27–23.
The game was निभाई on फ़रवरी 1, 2009, at रेमंड James Stadium in Tampa, Florida.
With this win, the Steelers became the पहला टोली to win six Super Bowls.
Pittsburgh, who finished the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 12–4 रिकार्ड, भी जीती उनके दूसरी सुपर Bowl in four years after winning Super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season.
The Cardinals entered the game seeking उनके पहला एनएफएल शीर्षक चूंकि 1947, the longest championship drought in the league.
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season, compiling a 9–7 record, and the playoffs with the aid of head coach Ken Whisenhunt, जो थी the स्टीलर्स ' अप्रिय समन्वयक in सुपर कटोरी xl, और the re-emergence of क्वार्टरबैक कर्ट warner, जो थी the सुपर कटोरी mvp in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team, St. Louis Rams.
पिट्सबर्ग कूद to a 17–7 मध्यांतर सीसे, aided by linebacker James Harrison 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth quarter, Arizona scored 16 unanswered points, सहित चौड़ी receiver लैरी fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception, to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the Steelers marched 78 गज to स्कोर on चौड़ी receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, including four receptions लिये 73 गज on कि फाइनल game-winning drive, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the पुरस्कार, और भी थी the तीसरा पिट्सबर्ग receiver to जीत the पुरस्कार, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the global financial crisis and limited राशि of आनुषंगिक festivities कि हैं सामान्यतः आयोजित पहले the खेल, the NBC television network broadcast attracted an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers, making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point.
A diagram of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of सब संभावित बारंबारता of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a अलग अर्थ, और is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न of the size of an atom.
the सीमा लिये long wavelengths is the आकार of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize पदार्थ.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for संचार और निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation for more applications ).
लेजेंड
marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( land plants ) that do नहीं have सच्चा vascular ऊतक और हैं इसलिए called ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized ऊतकों for the transport of water ; however since these do not contain lignin, they are not considered to be true vascular tissue.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a प्राकृतिक or monophyletic समूह ; however the नाम is सुविधाजनक और remains in उपयोग as a collective term for mosses, hornworts, and liverworts.
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia और sporangia ), लकिन वे उपज neither पुष्प nor seeds, reproducing via spores.
The term ब्रायोफाइटा आता इससे यूनानी βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a financial institution and a वित्तीय intermediary कि स्वीकृत जमा और चैनल्स those deposits into lending activities, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A bank is the connection between customers that have पूंजी deficits and customers with capital surpluses.
Due to their influence within a financial system and an अर्थव्यवस्था, बैंको हैं generally अत्यधिक regulated in सबसे countries.
Most banks operate under a प्रणाली ज्ञात as fractional आरक्षित बैंकिंग जहाँ वे hold only a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit.
They are generally subject to minimum capital requirements which are based on an अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियत of पूंजी मानकों, known as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena, headquartered in Siena, Italy, which has been ऑपरेटिंग लगातार चूंकि 1472.
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of हैम्बर्ग ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
Banking in इसके आधुनिक भाव विकसित in समृद्ध शहरों of पुनर्जागरण Italy, such as Florence, Venice and Genoa.
In the history of banking, a क्रमांक of बैंकिंग dynasties —among them notably Medici, Fugger, Welser, Berenberg, Baring and Rothschild —have played a central role over many centuries.
The Xbox is a video game console manufactured by microsoft.
It was released on November 15, 2001 in उत्तर अमेरिका, फ़रवरी 22, 2002 in Japan, and March 14, 2002 in Australia and Europe.
It was Microsoft 's पहला foray into the gaming console market.
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2, sega 's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका American sales before the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
The Xbox was the first console offered by an अमरीकी कम्पनी बाद the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 allowed खिलाड़ी to खेल खेल ऑनलाइन साथ a ब्रॉडबैंड connection.
It first competed with Dreamcast 's online service but later primarily competed with प्लेस्टेशन 2 's ऑनलाइन सेवा.
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription, as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely अपनाया yet, एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी a कामयाबी due to बेहतर सर्वर, सुविधाएँ ऐसे as a दोस्त सूची, और पड़ाव शीर्षक जैसे हेलो 2 released in नवम्बर 2004, जिससे is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years.
Xbox 's successor, the एक्सबॉक्स 360, थी launched in November 2005.
the एक्सबॉक्स थी discontinued in लेट 2005 in Japan where sales were poor.
It was discontinued in late 2006 in यूरोपीय और जल्दी 2007 in उत्तर America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was टोनी हॉक 's प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006, और the last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008.
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles थी discontinued on कूच 2, 2009, stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox access to Xbox Live was रोका on अप्रैल 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the Gospel of John or simply John and often referred to in New Testament स्कॉलरशिप as the चौथी इन्जील, is an खाता of the पब्लिक ministry of Jesus.
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the बैपटिस्ट और concludes साथ the मौत, दफ़न, क़यामत, and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus.
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels, after the synoptics मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और Luke.
states that the book derives from the testimony of the ' शिष्य जिसको यीशु loved. '
Along with Peter, the unnamed शिष्य is विशेषकर बंद to यीशु, और early-church tradition identified him as John the Apostle, one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators दावत the चार किताबे साथ, yet, according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों, John was not the author of any of these books.
Recent ईसाई scripture स्कॉलरशिप अधिक और अधिक has placed John within a first-century Jewish context.
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to ट्रेस the विकास of the tradition from which the gospel arose.
The discourses seem to be चिंतित साथ the वास्तविक मुद्दे of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written.
It is notable that, in the gospel, the community still appears to define itself primarily विरूद्ध judaism, बल्कि than as भाग of a wider Christian church.
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism, धीरे ईसाइयों और यहूदियों became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, meaning that it describes Jesus as the अवतार of the दैवी लोगो through whom all things were made, as the object of veneration, and more explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John does Jesus talk at length about himself and उसके दैवी भूमिका, प्रायः shared with the disciples only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on different चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting lazarus ), given as signs meant to engender faith.
Synoptic elements such as parables and exorcisms हैं नहीं मिला in जॉन.
It presents a realized eschatology in which मोक्ष is already उपस्थित for the believer.
The Plagues of Egypt ( ), also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues, were ten calamities that, according to the biblical किताब of exodus, इसराईल 's परमेश्वर, yahweh, inflicted upon मिश्र to राजी Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery.
pharaoh capitulated बाद the tenth plague, triggering the Exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to कंट्रास्ट the शक्ति of yahweh साथ the नपुंसकता of Egypt 's various gods.
Some commentators have संबद्ध अनेक of the plagues with judgment on specific gods associated with the Nile, fertility and natural phenomena.
The plagues of Egypt हैं भी उल्लेखित in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the Book of Exodus, God proclaims कि सब the देवताओं of मिश्र होगा be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the प्लेग of hail and fire ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players assume the भूमिकाएँ of वर्ण in a fictional setting.
Players take responsibility for acting out ये भूमिकाएँ भीतर a कथा, either through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a process of structured decision-making or character development.
Actions taken भीतर अनेक खेल सफल or असफल according to a formal system of rules and guidelines.
There are अनेक फ़ॉर्म of RPG.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through चर्चा, whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions.
in दोनो of ये फ़ॉर्म, an arranger पुकारा a खेल निपुण ( gm ) प्रायः decides on the rules and setting to be used and acts as referee, while each of the other players plays the role of a single character.
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media, such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors, massively एकाधिक ऑनलाइन role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी कंट्रोल a अक्षर or टोली जो undertake quests, और may शामिल सामर्थ्य that advance using statistical mechanics.
These games often share settings and rules with tabletop RPGs, but emphasize character उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling.
Despite this variety of forms, some game forms such as trading card games and wargames कि हैं सम्बन्धित to role-playing खेल may not be included.
Role-playing कार्यकलाप may sometimes be उपस्थित in such games, but it is not the primary focus.
The term is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe लिए simulation games and exercises used in teaching, training, and academic research.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate civil war.
आठ बाकी स्लेव states continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A सलाम सम्मेलन विफल to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
The definition of the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट by the Airports Council International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines और उपायों the following तीन types of airport traffic:
Passenger ट्रैफ़िक : कुल यात्री emplaned and deplaned, passengers in transit counted once
Cargo traffic : loaded and मोड भाड़ा और mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements : landings and take-offs of वायुयान
World War I ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the पहला संसार War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations डाला the युद्ध : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict soon स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर that changed little until 1917.
on the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the पूर्व दो खोया a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार War II.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of मैक्सिको आयल spill, और the macondo blowout ) थी an आयल spill in the गल्फ of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect, considered the largest accidental marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, which claimed 11 lives, a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated लिये 87 दिनों, जबतक it थी capped on 15 July 2010.
The total निर्वहन is अनुमानित at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, वेटलैंड्स और मुहानों इससे the spreading आयल utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant.
After several failed efforts to contain the flow, the well थी घोषित sealed on 19 September 2010.
Some reports indicate the well साईट continues to लीक.
Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities, extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats, fishing and tourism industries, and human health problems have जारी through 2013.three सालो बाद the spill, तारकोल गेंदें could स्टिल be मिला on the मिसिसिपी coast.
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the विस्फोट और record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed to defective सीमेंट on the खूब, faulting ज़्यादातर bp, लकिन भी खूब ऑपरेटर Transocean and contractor Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा प्रणाली, लकिन भी concluded कि the spill resulted इससे `` प्रणालीगत '' रूट कल्याणकारी और `` अनुपस्थित significant reform in both industry practices and government policies, might well recur ''.
In November 2012, BP and the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of इंसाफ settled संघीय दण्ड आरोप साथ bp pleading अपराधी to 11 रिश्तो of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress.
bp भी सहमत to चार सालो of सरकारी निगरानी of इसके सुरक्षा practices और आचार, और the पर्यावरणीय Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government.
BP and the विभाग of इंसाफ सहमत to a record-setting $ 4.525 अरब in जुर्माना and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment.
As of February 2013, criminal and civil settlements और भुगतान to a विश्वास fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion.
`` जहाँ the गलियों have No Name '' is a song by rock band U2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's तीसरा सिंगल in अगस्त 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay effect, played during the सोंग 's परिचय और again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in जवाब to the ख़्याल कि it is संभावित to पहचानो a व्यक्ति 's धर्म and income based on the street on which they lived, particularly in Belfast.
During the band 's difficulties recording the song, निर्माता ब्रायन eno माना erasing the song 's tapes to have them start from scratch.
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by आलोचकों और became a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, peaking at क्रमांक तेरह in the US, number fourteen in Canada, number ten in the Netherlands, and number four in the United Kingdom.
The song रै become एक of the बैंड 's सबसे लोकप्रिय गीतों और रै remained a staple of their live act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour.
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of इसके म्यूज़िक वीडियो, जिससे जीती a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन Music Video.Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9, 1956 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, निर्माता, लेखक, and director.
Hanks is known for his भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो 13, Big, That Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile, तुम 've मिला मेल, sleepless in सिएटल, चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध, कैच me if You Can, Forrest Gump, Cast Away, A League of Their Own, The Da Vinci Code, Angels & Demons, as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career, including winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका in फिलाडेल्फिया और a सुनहरी ग्लोब, an अकादमी पुरस्कार, a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं Guild Award, and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump, and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004.
Hanks is also known for his सहयोग साथ फिल्मी निदेशक स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग on छायांकन निजी Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers, which launched Hanks also as a successful director, producer and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the United States box office alone, and over $ 8.5 billion विश्वव्यापी बनाना उसे the उच्चतम all-time box office star.
The Cape is an अमरीकी superhero drama series.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning with a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे, जनवरी 9, 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time.
An encore निभाई on सोमवार, जनवरी 10, साथ follow-up एपीसोड continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired इससे 13 to 10 as a परिणाम of कम दरजा.
On March 2, 2011, NBC घोषित कि the श्रेणी finale would only be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's Comet or Comet हैली ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye इससे धरती, और यूँ the तभी naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल and more spectacular, but will appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have महरूम observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, Babylonian, and medieval यूरोपीय chroniclers, लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The धूमकेतु 's periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, हैली became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य of America.
As पारिभाषित by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` includes a variety of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few असाधारण जनसांख्यिकी designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated places.
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties कि हैं नहीं a भाग of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the जनसांख्यिकी of व्यक्तिगत municipalities भीतर उनके defined limits, which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident जब considering u.S. महानगर area populations.
The Mayflower was the जलयान कि in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष नई World environment.
A New Zealand forward ( in श्वेत ) takes a शॉट on लक्ष्य विरूद्ध कैमरून in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup.
Forwards, also known as strikers, are the players on a टोली in संघ फ़ुटबॉल जो खेल निकटतम to the opposing टोली 's लक्ष्य, और हैं therefore principally responsible for scoring goals.
This very advanced position and its सीमित रक्षात्मक जिम्मेदारियों औसत आगे normally score more goals than other players.
This position requires प्रज्ञा, गति, और शक्ति, both of execution and of thought, to perform the role well.
Modern team formations usually include one to तीन आगे ; दो is the सबसे आम.
Coaches typically फ़ील्ड एक स्ट्राइकर जो plays in an उन्नत स्थिति ( the केन्द्र आगे ), और another attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ).
It should be noted that inside forwards develop इससे attacking midfield स्थितियाँ और hence हैं naturally midfielders.
Barcelona FC star Lionel Messi is a typical attacking मिडफील्डर देखी as a आगे due to उसके shot accuracy.
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available to same-sex couples, and to certain opposite-sex युगल in जिससे at तनिक एक पार्टी is at तनिक 18 सालो of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, और लाभ, और... the वही जिम्मेदारियों, obligations, and duties under law... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership registry was the first of इसके दयालु in the संयुक्त राज्य निर्मित by a विधानमंडल without court intervention.
Initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally just hospital-visitation rights and the सही to be claimed as a अगला of kin of the एस्टेट of a deceased partner.
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California domestic partnerships to शामिल सब of the अधिकारों और जिम्मेदारियों आम to marriage.
As such, California domestic partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil संघ offered in several other states.
Although the program enjoys broad support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, it रै been the source of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the विस्तार of घरेलू partnerships in court.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex विवाह contend कि anything कम than पूरा विवाह अधिकारों extended to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
Mark A. Jackson ( born अप्रैल 1, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट कोच, and former player who is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA.
A point guard from St. John 's University, he played for the New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Los Angeles Clippers, Denver Nuggets, Toronto Raptors, यूटा जैज़ और ह्यूस्टन rockets in the एनबीए in a करियर spanning इससे 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a commentator for ESPN and ABC alongside his former coach जेफ़ वैन gundy और play-by-play man माइक breen.
he थी previously an एनबीए विश्लेषक for The YES Network 's New Jersey Nets games.
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी रै ग्यारह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अफ्रीकी, अंग्रेज़ी, ndebele, उत्तरी sotho, Sotho, Swazi, Tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two percent of South Africans बोलो a पहला भाषा अन्य than an आधिकारिक एक.
Most South africans can बोलो अधिक than one language.
Dutch and English were the पहला आधिकारिक भाषाएं of दक्षिण Africa from 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans was added as a भाग of डच in 1925.
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a गणतंत्र in 1961, और डच थी dropped in 1983, so between 1983 and 1994, South Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ), Setswana, अंग्रेज़ी, sesotho ( referring to दक्षिणी sotho ), xitsonga, siswati, tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ).
In दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, दक्षिणी ndebele is known simply as Ndebele, as most speakers of Northern Ndebele live in Zimbabwe.
The 1993 संस्करण of the संविधान referred to उत्तरी Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa, but the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different government departments and आधिकारिक लाशें उपयोग अलग शर्तें to denote Northern Sotho.
The main language of government is English even if South Africans प्रायः लो अभिमान in using indigenous languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans also features prominently in कॉमर्स साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी as the languages with the highest number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In terms of भाषाई classification, the official languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages.
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu, Xhosa, Swati and Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana भाषाएं ( उत्तरी sotho, दक्षिणी Sotho and Tswana ).
सोंगा is a Tswa–Ronga language.
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely उभरा नेशनल मानक भाषा जिससे भी subsumes a क्लस्टर of semi-standardised dialects.
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of एल्युमिनियम और नाइट्रिक एसिड, मौजूदा सामान्यतः as a crystalline हाइड्रेट, most commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The New York Jets are a professional football team headquartered in florham पार्क, New Jersey, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The team is a member of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
In a unique arrangement for the league, the jets share metlife स्टेडियम in ईस्ट रदरफोर्ड, New Jersey with the New York Giants.
The मताधिकार is legally और corporately registered as New York Jets, LLC.
The team थी संस्थापित in 1959 as the Titans of New York, an original member of the American Football League ; later, the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger.
The team began to खेल in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new ownership, the वर्तमान नाम थी अपनाया in 1963 और the मताधिकार was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in सुपर कटोरी iii जहाँ वे पराजित the बाल्टीमोर कोल्टस, बनने the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game.
Since 1968, the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times, and in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार टाइम्स, सबसे recently खोने to the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स in 2010.
however, the jets have never लौटे to the Super Bowl, making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance, along with the New Orleans Saints and Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
The team 's training facility, अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य jets प्रशिक्षण बीच, which opened in 2008, is located in Florham Park.
The team currently holds their सालाना प्रशिक्षण शिविर सत्र on the कैम्पस of the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई यॉर्क at cortland in Cortland, New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex.
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also ज्ञात as साइकेडेलिक मशरूम, हैं fungi कि contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
वहीँ हैं अनेक colloquial शर्तें लिये psilocybin mushrooms, the most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, copelandia, galerina, gerronema, gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, Mycena, Panaeolus, Pluteus, and Psilocybe.
There are लगभग 190 प्रजाति of psilocybin मशरूम and most of them fall in the genus Psilocybe.
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely been used since प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स और may have महरूम चित्रित in rock art.
Many संस्कृतियों have प्रयुक्त ये mushrooms in religious rites.
In modern Western society they are used recreationally for their साइकेडेलिक प्रभाव.
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude कि जब प्रयुक्त properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent, with the international boundary with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the उत्तर, और the प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण, साथ रूस further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area, the 4th least populous and the तनिक densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव भीतर the anchorage महानगर area.
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil, natural गैस, और फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on कूच 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल, जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an aleut शब्द निकला from the same root.
The 101 French विभाग हैं विभाजित into 342 arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts.
The capital of an arrondissement/district is पुकारा a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, एक्टिंग दोनो as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further विभाजित into cantons और communes.
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex अंग और रै दो प्रमुख कृत्यों ; यौन intercourse and childbirth.
In humans, this passage leads from the opening of the vulva to the गर्भाशय ( womb ), but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix.
Unlike men, who have only one genital orifice, महिलाओं have दो, the urethra and the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening, and both उद्घाटन हैं सुरक्षित by the labia.
The inner mould of the vagina has a foldy texture जिससे can बनाएँ घर्षण लिये the शिश्न दौरान intercourse.
During arousal, the योनि gets नम to सुकर the entrance of the penis.
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely प्रयुक्त in English.
Colloquially, the शब्द योनि is प्रायः used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general.
However, by its dictionary and anatomical definitions, योनि refers exclusively to the विशिष्ट आतंरिक structure.
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League Baseball team based in सिनसिनाटी, ओहियो.
They are members of the नेशनल लीग सेंट्रल Division.
Established in 1881 as an independent club, the team became a charter member of the अमरीकी संघ in 1882, और joined the National League in 1890.
The club traditionally traces इसके उत्पत्ति to बेसबॉल 's पहला openly professional team in 1869.
The Reds have won five World Series titles, one American Association pennant, nine National लीग pennants और टेन division titles.
The Reds played in the National League West between 1969 और 1993 और have महरूम in the नेशनल League Central since 1994.
Since 2003, the Reds have played at Great American बॉल पार्क, निर्मित अगला to उनके home from 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
Bob castellini रै owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006.
a शरारत stink bomb.
A stink bomb is a device designed to बनाएँ an अप्रिय smell.
They range in effectiveness इससे सरल pranks to सैन्य ग्रेड malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
the गिनीज किताब of Records lists two smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government Standard बाथरूम malodor '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ रसायन साथ a stench resembling human feces, only much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
Another one, `` Who me ? ``, is a मिश्रण of पाँच sulfur-containing chemicals and smells like rotting food and carcasses.
The adage `` A चित्र is लायक a हजार शब्द '' refers to the ख़्याल कि a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It also aptly characterizes एक of the प्रमुख लक्ष्य of कल्पना, namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly.
The अभिव्यक्ति `` Use a picture.
It 's worth a thousand words. '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing पत्रकारिता और publicity.
1913 समाचारपत्र advertisement
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the piqua Auto Supply House of Piqua, Ohio.
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper advertisement for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War exemplifies the सच्चाई of the ऊपर बयान -- judging इससे the गरम रिसेप्शन it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers.
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the विज्ञापन व्यापार जर्नल मुद्रक ' स्याही, promoting the उपयोग of बिंब in विज्ञापन that appeared on the sides of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad हकदार, `` एक dekh is लायक a हजार Words. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 समस्या साथ the phrase `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द, '' जहाँ it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of proverbs, maxims, और परिचित वाक्यांश उद्धरण बर्नार्ड as saying he called it `` a Chinese proverb, so that people would take it seriously. ''
Soon after, the कहावत would become popularly attributed to Confucius.
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture Worth Ten हजार शब्द '' wan येन i hua और 10.000 मील लायक 10.000 किताबे is cited in सूचना ग्राफिक्स जहाँ the अवधारणा of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A picture is लायक a हजार words
Despite this modern origin of the popular phrase, the भावना रै महरूम expressed by earlier writers.
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers और बेटे in 1862 ), `` a चित्र shows me at a glance what it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound. ''
कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और लेखक फ्रेड ब्रूक्स makes an opposite statement regarding programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables, and I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me your टेबल, और i won’t प्रायः need your flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by जॉन मैकार्थी, the प्रसिद्ध computer scientist, to make the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in weather, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती 's सतह, विसंगतियाँ of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is उजागर to अधिक सीधा धूप क्युकी the गोलार्ध faces the sun.
The same is true of the southern hemisphere in नवम्बर, दिसम्बर और जनवरी.
It is the झुकाव of the धरती कि causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December, जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally चार पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न साथ साथ the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or monsoon ) season and the dry season, and in some तीव्र क्षेत्रों, a कूल or mild ऋतु.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological seasons
The four calendar सीज़न, चित्रित in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch निर्यात in 2006
At the time of writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था of the world.
( see : List of countries by जीडीपी ( nominal ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the शीर्ष 10 of richest nations in the world ( see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ).
Between 1996 और 2000 सालाना आर्थिक विकास ( GDP ) averaged over 4 %, well above the European average.
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as भाग of the वैश्विक economic slowdown.
2006 और 2007 however showed economic growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the जारी वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट and the ensuing European debt crisis.
अनेक बैंको गई दिवालिया, और a number of others had to receive governmental aid.
In 2009 the economy declined साथ 3.5 %, followed by दो सालो of mild growth.
The Dutch अर्थव्यवस्था is फिलहाल in a मंदी again, with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in February 2013.
Unemployment रै महरूम अपेक्षाकृत कम compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at least until March 2013 according to the तीन प्रमुख क्रेडिट rating agencies.
Historically, the डच introduced और invented the stock market by the merchandise trading through Dutch West India Company.
The नीदरलैंड्स is a founding सदस्य of the यूरोपीय Union, the OECD and the World Trade Organization.
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio album and छठे studio album by Tupac Shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by Shakur before his death in 1996.
Released in the United States on December 14, 2004 ( December 12 in the United Kingdom ), Loyal to the खेल थी उत्पादित by Eminem.
the असली फलक of the दृश्य ; Meredith Vieira, Star Jones, Debbie Matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997.
The View is an American talk show ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी कि debuted in 1997 as भाग of the संजाल 's daytime programming block.
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie, who both also serve as the show 's कार्यपालिका निर्माता, the कार्यक्रम सुविधाएँ a panel of women as co-hosts.
Along with Walters, the current panel includes Whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, जो serves as the मॉडरेटर, आनन्द behar, एलिज़ाबेथ Hasselbeck, and Sherri Shepherd.
अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्करण of the program are aired in several countries.
As of the 2012–13 ऋतु, इसके 16th, the दृश्य is the fourth-longest running national daytime talk show in history, behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ), and The Oprah विनफ्रे दिखाएँ ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, Virginia bird cherry and western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus padus ) देशी to उत्तर अमेरिका ; the प्राकृतिक ऐतिहासिक दायरा of P. virginiana शामिल सबसे of the महाद्वीप, मगर लिये the दूर उत्तर and far south.
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary विमानक्षेत्र सेवारत the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, the second-most populated metropolitan area in the United States.
It is most often referred to by its IATA airport code LAX, with the अक्षर सुनाया individually.
LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of westchester, इससे the शहर कोर और is the प्राथमिक airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Beijing Capital अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र, शिकागो o'hare अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport, and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest origin and गंतव्य ( o & d ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is also the only airport to rank among the top five U.S. एयरपोर्ट लिये दोनो यात्री and cargo traffic.
LAX is the busiest airport in the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, लकिन अन्य एयरपोर्ट सहित bob आशा विमानक्षेत्र, जॉन वेन Airport, Long Beach Airport, LA/Ontario International Airport, and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region.
LAX is also the busiest airport in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the वेस्ट coast of the संयुक्त राज्य in terms of flight operations, passenger traffic and air cargo activity, leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the डेनवर broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He played for the Indianapolis Colts for 14 सीज़न इससे 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an elder bhai of नई यॉर्क दिग्गज क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग.
Manning played कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी, अग्रणी the Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee lost to the No. 2 नेब्रास्का cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी कटोरी giving Nebraska and Tom Osborne their 3rd national championship in 4 years.
He was chosen by the Indianapolis कोल्टस साथ the पहला overall चुनें in the 1998 NFL Draft.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the कोल्टस to आठ ( सात afc दक्षिण and one AFC East ) division championships, two AFC championships, and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He has won a record four league सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार, थी the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी xli, रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो Bowls, has twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons, and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the best player in the NFL and Fox Sports along with Sports illustrated नामित उसे the एनएफएल खिलाड़ी of the दशक of the 2000s.
In May 2011, he underwent neck surgery to alleviate neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the previous few seasons पहले हस्ताक्षर a five-year, $ 90 लाख अनुबंध एक्सटेंशन साथ the Colts in July 2011.
मैनिंग था hoped to खेल in the 2011 ऋतु, but in September 2011, he underwent a much more serious second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure.
Manning had never missed an NFL खेल in उसके करियर, लकिन थी मजबूर to मिस the संपूर्ण 2011 season.
He was released by the Colts on March 7, 2012, and after an almost two-week period where he visited साथ और worked आउट लिये अनेक एनएफएल टीमों, he हस्ताक्षरित with the Denver Broncos on March 20, 2012.
मैनिंग 's pre-snap दिनचर्या रै अर्जित him the nickname, `` The Sheriff '' and is one of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up ठोकर led to मैनिंग using an सरणी of इशारों और मौखिक कमांड to कॉल the खेल at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
The अमेरिका मीनार of the अमरीकी सामान्य Center, the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is one of the world 's largest oilfield सेवाएं companies.
It operates in over 90 countries, providing the oil and gas industry साथ उत्पाद और सेवाएं लिये खुदाई, गठन मूल्यांकन, पूर्णता, production and reservoir consulting.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America मीनार in the American General Center in Neartown, Houston.
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker International और ह्यूजेस औजार कम्पनी मिलाया in 1987.
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with प्रमुख कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल, संयुक्त किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और मेंटेनेंस सुविधा in celle, जर्मनी ; lafayette, louisiana ; ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The company is administered broadly in दो बांटती : the पूर्वी गोलार्ध साथ पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय, अफ़्रीकी, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada, US Land, US Gulf, and Latin America ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into बाज़ार.
The United States one- cent coin, commonly known as a penny, is a ईकाई of करेंसी equaling एक one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
The cent 's प्रतीक is ¢.
Its obverse has प्रदर्शित the प्रोफ़ाइल of अध्यक्ष Abraham Lincoln since 1909, the centennial of his birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008, the रिवर्स प्रदर्शित the lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new, permanent reverse – the संघ शील्ड – थी introduced in 2010.
The coin is 0.75 इंच ( 19.05 mm ) in व्यास और 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's आधिकारिक नाम लिये a पैनी is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official name is `` one cent piece ''.
The colloquial term penny गर्भाशयी इससे the अंग्रेजों सिक्का of the वही नाम, the pre-decimal version of which had a similar value.
In American English, कौड़ी is the बहुवचन रूप, अन्य बहुवचन फ़ॉर्म पेंस and pee ( standard use in British English ) are not used.
As of 2012, it लागत the u.S. मिंट 2.00 सेंट to मेक a cent because of the cost of materials and production.
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components लिये वितरण और fabrication, अनुमानित at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead allocated to the penny, जिससे थी $ 17.7 लाख लिये 2011.
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by अन्य circulating सिक्के बगैर the penny.
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent सिक्का in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the साल of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
This was a slight घटी इससे 2011, the साल पहले, which had a production loss of $ 60,200,000.
or more specifically, are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) कि हैं रखा लिये सजावटी उद्देश्य in बाहरी कोई तालाबों or water gardens.
Koi varieties are distinguished by coloration, patterning, और scalation.
Some of the प्रमुख रंगों हैं श्वेत, ब्लैक, red, yellow, blue, and cream.
The most popular category of कोई is the gosanke, जिससे is बना up of the kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, and Showa Sanshoku varieties.
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government, about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia, and a few hundred निजी सेक्टर कर्मचारी, ज़्यादातर in और around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- postal संघीय कर्मचारी और the largest संघ लिये ज़िला of कोलंबिया कर्मचारी who report directly to the mayor ( i.e., outside of D.C. public schools ).
It is संबद्ध साथ the AFL-CIO.
A late सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
ग्रीन : a spore tetrad.
Blue : A spore bearing a trilete चिह्नित – the -आकारd scar.
The spores हैं परिचय 30-35 μm across
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity, from the earliest algal मैट्स, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the जटिल gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared पहले continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in जिससे वे evolved, for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors.
In the Ordovician period, around, the पहला जमीन पौधे appeared.
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period, around, and the results of their diversification हैं प्रदर्शित in उल्लेखनीय विवरण in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved जल्दी पौधे in सेल्यूलर detail, petrified in volcanic springs.
by the मध्य of the devonian काल, सबसे of the सुविधाएँ recognised in पौधे आज are present, including roots, leaves and secondary wood ; and, by late Devonian times, seeds had evolved.
लेट devonian पौधे था thereby पहुँचे a उपाधि of परिष्कार that allowed them to form forests of tall trees.
Evolutionary innovation continued into the carboniferous काल और is still ongoing today.
Most plant groups were अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities changed.
This may have set the scene for the appearance of the flowering पौधे in the triassic ( ~ ), और उनके later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major group of पौधे to evolve यहूद the grasses, जिससे became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-Paleogene, from around.
The grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of metabolism to जीवित the कम और गरम, शुष्क शर्तें of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the last.
The winning सुपर कटोरी टोली receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the चैंपियन of the नेशनल Football League ( NFL ).
The contest is held in an American city that is chosen three to four years beforehand, प्रायः in warm-weather or domed sites.
Since 1971, the winner of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the winner of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( afl ) और the National Football League ( NFL ), the two leagues met in four such contests.
The first two यहूद ज्ञात as the `` afl-nfl World Championship Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker, the names `` सुपर कटोरी i `` और `` सुपर कटोरी ii `` यहूद retroactively applied to the first two games.
The NFC /NFL leads in Super Bowl विन्स साथ 25, जबकि the afc /AFL has won 22.
Eighteen different franchises, सहित टीमों कि relocated to another नगर, have won the Super Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with छह championships ( रिकार्ड 6–2 ), जबकि दोनो the डलास cowboys और सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have five wins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the सबसे सुपर कटोरी दिखावे साथ आठ, जबकि the भैंस Bills have the most consecutive appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New England Patriots, Denver Broncos and Minnesota Vikings have भी खोया a रिकार्ड चार सुपर प्याले.
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4, डेनवर is 2–4 और New England is 3–4.
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers, the 1972-73 मियामी डॉल्फिन, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the तभी टोली to accomplish इस feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the बाल्टीमोर ravens, जो in जीतना सुपर कटोरी xlvii unseated और replaced the 49ers in that position.
Four current NFL टीमों have never appeared in a सुपर Bowl, including franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Jacksonville Jaguars, and Houston Texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
Martin County is a county स्तिथ in the u.S. state of Texas.
As of the 2010 census, इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी 4,799.
इसके सीट is Stanton.
The county is named for wylie मार्टिन, an जल्दी settler.
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition, or entirely dry, काउंटी in the राज्य of टेक्सास.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase एंजाइम जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना फास्फेट groups from many types of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The process of removing the phosphate समूह is पुकारा dephosphorylation.
As the name suggests, क्षारीय phosphatases हैं सबसे effective in an alkaline environment.
It is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously as basic phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( Triticum ) and rye ( secale ) पहला करवाया in laboratories during the late 19th century.
The grain थी originally करवाया in Scotland and Sweden.
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation hybrid, i.e., a cross between दो kinds of प्राथमिक ( पहला क्रॉस ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the उपज संभावित और अनाज विशेषता of गेहूं with the disease and environmental tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye.
Only recently has it महरूम विकसित into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can अधिक or कम resemble either of इसके parents.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, हालांकि कुछ triticale-based भोजन can be खरीदा at स्वास्थ्य food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals.
When crossing wheat and rye, wheat is used as the मादा जनक और rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ).
The resulting hybrid is sterile, and must be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the क्षमता to reproduce itself.
The primary producers of triticale हैं कैंडल, जर्मनी, France, Belarus and Australia.
In 2009, according to the खाना और कृषि संगठन ( FAO ), 15.0 million tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world.
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid, which means the plant is द्विगुणित लिये दो genomes निकला इससे अलग species.
In other words, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, most work थी किया on octoploid triticale.
Different ploidy levels have महरूम निर्मित और evaluated over समय.
The tetraploids showed little promise, but hexaploid triticale was successful enough to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग.
the cimmyt triticale सुधार program wanted to improve food production and nutrition in developing countries.
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other food उत्पाद, ऐसे as कुकीज़, पास्ता, पिज़्ज़ा आटा and breakfast cereals.
The protein content is higher than that of गेहूं, हालांकि the glutenin भिन्न is less.
The grain has also been stated to have उच्चतर स्तर of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased स्वीकृति, the मिलिंग उद्योग होगा have to adapt to triticale, as the milling techniques employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be used as a feed grain, and later research मिला इसके मंड थी विशेषकर readily पचता.
As a feed grain, triticale is already well established और of ऊँची आर्थिक महत्व.
It has received attention as a potential energy crop, and research is currently being conducted on the उपयोग of the क्रॉप 's बायोमास in bioethanol production.
`` Puff, the Magic Dragon '' is a song written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow, and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter, Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording.
The song हासिल ग्रेट लोकप्रियता.
A college football national championship in the highest level of कॉलेजिएट खेल in the संयुक्त राज्य, फिलहाल the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( NCAA ) Division I Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ), is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly प्रभाग i-a ) फ़ुटबॉल is the तभी ncaa खेल in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
Because the championship team is not determined by a ncaa चैंपियनशिप or टूर्नामेंट इवेंट, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship ``.
Since the NCAA, the sport 's शासी देह, करता नहीं determine or घोषित a national champion in this field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A championship team is independently घोषित by विभिन्न individuals और organizations, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
These choices are sometimes at हालात साथ each other.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual championship team, it has documented the choices of several selectors in the official NCAA फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision रिकॉर्ड.
In addition, various third party analysts have independently प्रकाशित उनके अपना सूचियाँ of what they have determined to be the most legitimate selections for each season.
These are also often at odds with each other as well as individual school 's claims on national championships, जिससे, for any particular season, may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
Currently, two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press, which conducts a poll of football sportswriters, and the USA Today कोच ' पोल, a पोल of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच संघ क्रियाशील कोच कि is contractually obligated to नाम the विजेता of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion.
The Milwaukee Brewers are a professional बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in मिल्वौकी, Wisconsin.
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major League Baseball 's National लीग और plays इसके घर खेल at मिलर पार्क.
The team is so named because of the city 's association साथ the brewing उद्योग.
The वॉशिंगटन नागरिकों हैं a professional baseball team based in Washington, D.C.
the नागरिकों हैं a सदस्य of the ईस्ट प्रभाग of the नेशनल League of Major League Baseball ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is Nationals Park, located on South कैपिटल गली in southeast D.C., near the Anacostia River.
The park opened in 2008, replacing rfk स्टेडियम, the टोली 's घर from 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' नाम गर्भाशयी इससे the पूर्व वॉशिंगटन बेसबॉल टोली कि had the same name ( used interchangeably with Senators ).
उनके उपनाम is `` the nats '' —a shortened version that was also used by the old D.C. teams.
An expansion franchise, the क्लबों थी संस्थापित in as the मॉन्ट्रियल expos, the first major league team in Canada.
They were based in Montreal, क्यूबेक, और निभाई उनके घर खेल at jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium.
In, the Expos won a division championship, won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़, 3–2, और उन्नत to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी, जहाँ वे होता go on to खोना to the लॉस Angeles Dodgers, 3–2, in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season.
The Expos had their highest winning percentage in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, जब the टोली था the बेहतरीन रिकार्ड in baseball.
The team 's subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused fan interest to drop off.
After the 2001 season, MLB considered revoking the टोली 's मताधिकार, साथ साथ either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
After being purchased by MLB in 2002, the टोली थी स्थानांतरित पहले the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals, the first relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, and became the Texas Rangers in.
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises, and the only one in the National League, that has never played in a World Series ( the सिएटल मैरीनेर्स हैं the अन्य ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is कोई शुल्क लिये सेवाएं provided जहाँ the शुल्क is देय तभी if there is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee चार्ज लिये a वकील 's सेवाएं तभी if the मुकदमा is successful or is favorably settled out of court....
Contingent fees are usually गणना as a प्रतिशत of the क्लाएंट 's जाल रिकवरी. ''
In the अंग्रेज़ी विधिक प्रणाली, it is generally referred to as no win no fee.
A conditional fee अनुबंध between a विधि कड़ और a client.
The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor होगा लो a विधि मामला on the समझना that if lost, no payment is made.
However, if the case is won, the lawyer will be entitled to the सामान्य शुल्क आधारित on hourly बिलिंग, plus a success fee.
The success fee in इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत no greater than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts साथ the आकस्मिकता शुल्क in the us, जिससे देता the successful attorney a percentage of the damages awarded in favor of his client.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights चूंकि वरना, to मुकदमा किसी लिये a अपकृत्य, एक जरूर पहला be धनवान enough to pursue such litigation in the first place.
however, क्युकी of the ऊँची रिस्क, few attorneys will take cases on a contingency basis unless they feel the case has good merit.
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्राज़ील, कनाडा, the डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र, फ़्रांस, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, जापानी, नई जीलैंड, the संयुक्त Kingdom and the United States.
They are also अनुमत in निजी injury actions in Lithuania.
Recently, they have been अनुमत in बेल्जियम as खूब.
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a समूह of लोगों formally assembled for a special purpose.
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit गैरकानूनी मोटरसाइकिल क्लबों ऑपरेटिंग in आकर्षक, a fictional कस्बा in कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's Central Valley.
The show centers on protagonist जैक्सन `` जैक्स '' teller ( चार्ली hunnam ), the then-vice अध्यक्ष of the club, who begins questioning the club and himself.
बेटे of अराजकता premiered on September 3, 2008, on cable network FX.
The third season of the series attracted an average of 4.9 million viewers per week, making it FX 's highest rated series ever, surpassing fx 's अन्य हिट्स the शील्ड, nip/tuck, और बचाव me.
On February 3, 2012, बेटे of अराजकता थी नवीनीकृत लिये two additional seasons, a fifth and a sixth.
those शामिल in the उत्पादन of the श्रेणी imply कि a सातवाँ and final season is creator Kurt Sutter 's plan.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial झीलों ( ; vötn = `` waters '', singular : ) and the volcano of the same name are in South-East Iceland.
They are in the highlands of आइसलैंड at the northwestern पक्ष of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The झीलों हैं at, at an elevation of.
Beneath the lakes is the magma कक्ष of the grímsvötn ज्वालामुखी.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in आइसलैंड और रै a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 थी a भाग of the वही फिशर प्रणाली.
Grímsvötn was erupting at the वही समय as laki दौरान 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
Because most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull, most of its eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater इससे the बर्फ कल्याणकारी phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC, an eruption began, with high plumes accompanied by अनेक भूकंप, resulting in रद्दीकरण of 900 फ़्लाइट in आइसलैंड, और in the United Kingdom, Greenland, Germany, Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May.
Until 25 May the eruption scale had been larger than कि of the 2010 फटना of Eyjafjallajökull.
The eruption stopped at 02:40 utc on 25 may 2011, हालांकि there was some explosive activity from the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a background check on someone before offering them नियुक्ति, डाक्टरेट an पुरस्कार, इत्यादि.
A prospective person or प्रोजेक्ट may be vetted पहले बनाना a hiring decision.
In addition, in intelligence gathering, assets are vetted to determine their usefulness.
पूर्व मुख्यालय और current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly harrah 's entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी पब्लिक गेमिंग निगम कि owns and operates over 50 casinos, hotels, and seven golf courses under several brands.
The company, based in Paradise, Nevada, is the largest gaming company in the world, साथ सालाना revenues of $ 8.9 अरब ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the स्टेक और blackstone समूह भी पकड़कर a significant stake.
The name change इससे `` harrah 's entertainment inc. '' to `` caesars entertainment निगम '' was made official on November 23, 2010.
Harrah 's remains a कुंजी ब्रांड in the company.
On नवम्बर 5, 2010, harrah 's घोषित an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November 19.
A स्थाई निवासी in कनाडा is a व्यक्ति जो is नहीं a कनाडाई नागरिक लकिन जो रै महरूम granted permission to live and work in Canada without any time limit on his or her stay.
A permanent resident must live in कनाडा लिये दो सालो out of every five or risk losing that status.
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen, among others the right to work लिये कोई एंटरप्राइज़ as खूब as लिये the संघीय or प्रांतीय सरकारी ( अंतर्गत प्रतिबंध of अभिगम rights to certain regulated professions ).
The प्रमुख मतभेद हैं that residents can not :
vote in चुनावों in Canada ;
run for elected दफ्तर ;
hold Canadian passports ;
In addition, वे may be अनुमत to जुड़ें कनाडा 's armed forces if the national interest would not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also risk deportation for serious crimes वचनबद्ध जबकि निवासी in कनाडा.
Permanent residents may apply for Canadian citizenship after three सालो in कनाडा ; however इस is नहीं अनिवार्य.
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the American ABC दिन साबुन ओपेरा सब my children.
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on जनवरी 16, 1970 जबतक the पिछला ब्रॉडकास्ट television episode aired on September 23, 2011.
On फ़रवरी 11, 2013, it थी घोषित कि lucci होगा guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children.
In the U.S., Erica is considered to be the सबसे लोकप्रिय अक्षर in soap opera history.
Regarding the North-American market, TV Guide calls her `` unequivocally the most famous soap opera अक्षर in the इतिहास of दिन tv '', और शामिल उसके in उनके 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI इससे 1913 to 2006 ( in ब्लू ), और इसके प्रतिशत annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the दाम स्तर of a मार्केट बास्केट of उपभोक्ता goods और सेवाएं purchased by households.
The CPI in the United States is पारिभाषित by the ब्यूरो of मजदूर आंकडे as `` a माप of the औसत बदलें over समय in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services. ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate constructed using the कीमतें of a नमूना of representative items whose prices are collected periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods और सेवाएं, होने संयुक्त to उपज the overall अनुक्रमणिका साथ weights reflecting उनके साझा in the कुल of the consumer expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of several price indices गणना by most national statistical agencies.
The annual प्रतिशत बदलें in a CPI is used as a measure of inflation.
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e., adjust for the प्रभाव of महंगाई ) the रियल मान of मजदूरी, salaries, pensions, for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values.
In most countries, the CPI is, along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product खाते, एक of the सबसे closely देखी नेशनल आर्थिक statistics.
Knocking on wood, or to touch wood, refers to the apotropaic परंपरा in पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on लकडी, or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend same, in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own death.
रॉकर arm
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive, marine, motorcycle and reciprocating aviation इंजन, the रॉकर भुजा is an oscillating लीवर कि conveys रेडियल गति इससे the कैम पालि into रैखिक गति at the poppet valve to open it.
One end is raised and lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either सीधे or via a tappet ( lifter ) और pushrod ) जबकि the अन्य समाप्त अधिनियमों on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm, the अंदर दबाता bas on the वाल्व स्टेम, खोलने the valve.
When the बाहर of the भुजा is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts रोटेशन, the inside rises, allowing the valve spring to close the valve.
The drive cam is चलित by the camshaft.
This pushes the रॉकर भुजा up और bas about the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
Friction may be reduced at the point of contact with the वाल्व स्टेम by a रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता.
a समान व्यवस्था हस्तांतरण the motion via another roller cam follower to a second rocker arm.
This rotates about the rocker shaft, और हस्तांतरण the गति via a tappet to the poppet valve.
in इस मामला इस opens the intake valve to the cylinder head.
The effective leverage of the भुजा ( और यूँ the फ़ोर्स it can exert on the वाल्व स्टेम ) is संकल्पित by the रॉकर भुजा अनुपात, the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current ऑटोमोटिव डिज़ाइन favors रॉकर arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the पास्ट छोटी धनात्मक ratios ( the वाल्व लिफ्ट is वृहद than the cam lift ) and even negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used.
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 ( न्यूट्रल ) ratios.
For car इंजन the रॉकर बाहें हैं generally स्टील stampings, providing a reasonable balance of strength, weight and economical cost.
क्युकी the रॉकर बाहें हैं, in भाग, प्रत्यागमनी वज़न, excessive mass especially at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by उसके then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
Reba mcentire बाद covered it in 1991.
Recorded in लेट अक्तूबर 1972 in united/western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972, the song centers around the older brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of and executed for a murder, which the narrator herself has committed.
In postal mail, a return address is an सुस्पष्ट समावेश of the पता of the person sending the message.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to respond to the sender of the message if needed.
The return address need not include a प्रेषक 's नाम, लकिन चाहिए शामिल पता or P.O. box details in the same way as the delivery address should.
In some countries, the return पता is conventionally located in the upper left hand corner of the envelope, card, or label.
In the United Kingdom, the return address is usually placed on the रिवर्स of the envelope, near the top.
Businesses प्रायः उपयोग लिफाफे preprinted साथ a return address.
Many individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted साथ उनके home address to affix to their correspondence.
धर्मार्थ sometimes include such sheets in mailshots.
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an आसान रास्ता to छिलके और स्टिक वापसी पता लेबल्स to their envelopes.
The return address is not required on डाक मेल.
However, lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to return the item if it proves undeliverable ; such as इससे क्षति, postage due, or अमान्य destination.
Such mail may यूँ become मुर्दे अक्षर mail.
Should the return address be of a different state or country, the mail may be routed through कि स्थान for ease of return.
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial nerve graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an कृत्रिम अर्थात् of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries.
When direct suturing of the दो आउट of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर tension, the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the limited availability of donor ऊतक और कार्यात्मक रिकवरी in autologous तंत्रिका कलम, neural tissue engineering research has focused on the development of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment, especially for large defects.
Similar techniques are also being explored लिये तंत्रिका मरम्मत in the स्पाइनल cord लकिन तंत्रिका regeneration in the central nervous system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment.
The creation of artificial conduits is also known as entubulation क्युकी the तंत्रिका ends and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit, it should facilitate neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal और distal ends of the तंत्रिका गैप, block external inhibitory factors, and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine शारीरिक, रासायनिक, और biological cues अंतर्गत शर्तें कि होगा फोस्टर tissue formation.
Materials कि have महरूम प्रयुक्त to मेक biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles, while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively.
tissue-engineered तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduits हैं a संयोजन of many elements : scaffold structure, scaffold material, cellular therapies, neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which शारीरिक, रासायनिक और biological cues to उपयोग is आधारित on the गुण of the तंत्रिका पर्यावरण, which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration.
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability during nerve growth, implantation and sterilization.
Hardcore Pawn is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित by rdf यूएसए ( बाद zodiak यूएसए ) और रिचर्ड Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry and Loan, a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road, between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit, Michigan.
The series premiered on अगस्त 16, 2010, delivering two million viewers, setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever.
amoxicillin BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), and abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic प्रयुक्त to दावत बैक्टीरियल infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is प्रायः the ड्रग of चुनाव within the class because it is better absorbed, following oral administration, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
amoxicillin is एक of the सबसे common antibiotics prescribed for children.
The drug became उपलब्धियाँ in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria, which are resistant to a broad वर्णक्रम of β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक, ऐसे as पेनिसिलीन.
For this reason, it is प्रायः संयुक्त साथ clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases effectiveness by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973 ), often referred to as LBJ, was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed बाद उसके सेवा as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who served in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि, Senator, Vice President, and President.
जॉनसन, a डेमोक्रेट इससे टेक्सास, परोसा as a संयुक्त राज्य प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर from 1949–1961, including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, जॉनसन थी asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22, 1963, समाप्त Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right, winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as अध्यक्ष, he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' उसके coercion of शक्तिशाली राजनेता in order to advance legislation.
meanwhile, जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968, as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, and crime rates soared, as his opponents उठाया मांगे लिये `` विधि और अनुक्रम '' नीतियों.
The Democratic Party विभाजित in अनेक feuding गिरोहों, और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary, he ended his bid for reelection.
Republican Richard Nixon was निर्वाचित to सफल उसे.
Historians argue कि जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the शिखर of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is क्रमित favorably by कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of उसके domestic policies.
The Big बंग सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009, इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर, Simon Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big बंग सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre और Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on पाँच वर्ण : roommates शेल्डन कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been प्रचारित to अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ : लेस्ली winkle ( ऋतु 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at अलग टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक Republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन would not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य continued to reject calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A सलाम सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate States of America.
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon Fort Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more slave states joined the confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to ग्यारह.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी that crippled the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of their western armies, and the Union at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
in the पश्चिमी थिएटर, विलियम T. शरमन drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
Human evolution refers to the evolutionary process leading up to the रूप of आधुनिक इंसानो.
While it began with the last common पूर्वज of सब जीवन, the टॉपिक प्रायः कवर तभी the विकासवादी इतिहास of primates, in particular the genus होमो, और the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
The study of human evolution involves अनेक वैज्ञानिक disciplines, सहित physical anthropology, primatology, archaeology, linguistics, evolutionary psychology, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period, और the earliest जीवाश्मों appear in the paleocene, around.
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 लाख सालो पहले, और around, the ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line, and the earliest bipedal Hominin is माना to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin, साथ Ardipithecus, a full bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the same time, about 4-6 लाख सालो पहले, और either sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them.
The early bipedals आखिरकार विकसित into the australopithecines and later the genus Homo.
The earliest प्रलेखित सदस्यों of the genus होमो हैं होमो habilis जिससे विकसित around ; the earliest प्रजाति for which there is positive evidence of use of stone tools.
The brains of these early hominins were about the same आकार as कि of a चिंपैंजी.
During the next million years a process of encephalization began, and with the arrival of होमो इरेक्टस in the चट्टान रिकार्ड, cranial क्षमता था doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave Africa, और ये species spread through Africa, Asia, and Europe between.
It is believed that these species were the first to उपयोग आग और जटिल tools.
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory, modern humans evolved in Africa possibly from Homo heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago, replacing लोकल populations of होमो इरेक्टस, होमो denisova, होमो floresiensis और होमो neanderthalensis.
Archaic Homo sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो, विकसित between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago.
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-african populations, और neanderthals और अन्य hominids, ऐसे as denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of उनके genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago.
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture, language, and specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000 years ago according to अनेक विज्ञानियों हालांकि कुछ सुझाएँ a क्रमिक बदलें in बर्ताव over a longer time span.
Lisa Cuddy, M.D., is a fictional अक्षर on the फॉक्स network medical drama House.
वो is portrayed by Lisa Edelstein.
Cuddy was the Dean of आयुर्विज्ञान और हॉस्पिटल व्यवस्थापक of the fictional princeton-plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey.
वो भी becomes हाउस 's प्रेम ब्याज through the years to start a relationship with him in season seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of ऋतु सात 's finale `` चलती On ``.
Track and field is a खेल comprising विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी athletic contests based on running, jumping, and throwing.
The name of the sport derives from the competition venue : a stadium with an oval running track around a ग्रास field.
The throwing and jumping events generally लो प्लेस in the सेंट्रल enclosed area.
Track and फ़ील्ड जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ खेल of एथलेटिक्स, जिससे also includes road running, cross country running, and race walking.
The two most prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय track और field competitions are held under the banner of athletics : the athletics competition at the Olympic Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics.
The International संघ of एथलेटिक्स federations is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय governing body for track and field.
Track and field events are generally व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ athletes challenging each other to decide a single victor.
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time, while the jumping and throwing events are won by the खिलाड़ी जो रै हासिल the महानतम अलहदा or ऊँचाई in the प्रतियोगिता.
The running events are categorised as sprints, middle और long-distance कार्यक्रम, relays, और hurdling.
Regular jumping events include long jump, ट्रिपल जम्प, ऊँची जम्प और ध्रुव वॉल्ट, जबकि the सबसे आम फेंकना कार्यक्रम हैं shot put, javelin, discus and hammer.
There हैं भी `` संयुक्त कार्यक्रम '', ऐसे as heptathlon and decathlon, in which athletes compete in a number of the above events.
Records are kept of the best performances in specific events, at संसार और नेशनल स्तर, सही bas to a personal level.
However, if athletes are deemed to have violated the इवेंट 's नियम or regulations, वे हैं disqualified इससे the प्रतियोगिता and their marks are erased.
In North America, the term track and field may be used to refer to एथलेटिक्स in सामान्य, बल्कि than specifically track और फ़ील्ड events.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was a war waged by a U.N.-authorized Coalition force from 34 nations led by the United States, against इराकी in जवाब to इराकी 's आक्रमण और annexation of Kuwait.
The war is also known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf War, First गल्फ युद्ध, गल्फ युद्ध i, or the First Iraq War, before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
कुवैत 's आक्रमण by इराकी सैनिकों कि began 2 अगस्त 1990 was met with international condemnation, and brought immediate economic sanctions against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President जार्ज H. W. बुश तैनात u.S. शक्तियां into सऊदी अरब, and urged other countries to send their own forces to the scene.
An array of राष्ट्र joined the Coalition.
The great majority of the Coalition 's सैन्य शक्तियां यहूद इससे the u.S., साथ सऊदी अरब, the संयुक्त किंगडम और मिश्र as अग्रणी contributors, in that order.
Saudi Arabia सशुल्क around us $ 36 अरब of the US $ 60 billion cost.
The war was marked by the शुरूआत of सजीव न्यूज on the सामने lines of the fight, with the primacy of the U.S. network CNN.
The war has also earned the उपनाम वीडियो खेल युद्ध बाद the रोज़ broadcast images on board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm.
The initial conflict to expel Iraqi troops from Kuwait began साथ an aerial बमबारी on 17 January 1991.
This was followed by a मैदान assault on 24 February.
This was a decisive विजय लिये the गठबन्धन forces, who liberated Kuwait and advanced into Iraqi territory.
The Coalition ceased their advance, and declared a cease-fire 100 घंटों बाद the मैदान अभियान started.
Aerial and ground combat was confined to इराकी, कुवैत, and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border.
Iraq शुभारम्भ scud मिसाइलें विरूद्ध गठबन्धन सैन्य targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel.
The nickel, in American उपयोग, is a five- cent coin issued by the United States Mint.
Composed of 75 % तांबे और 25 % निकल, the टुकड़ा has been struck since 1866.
The silver half dime, equal to five cents, had महरूम जारी since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused economic hardship, driving gold and silver from circulation ; in response, in place of low-value coins, the सरकारी at पहला जारी पेपर करेंसी.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency note after Spencer M. Clark, head of the Currency Bureau ( today the Bureau of नक्काशी और मुद्रण ), लगाई उसके अपना पोर्ट्रेट on the denomination.
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent टुकड़े, बगैर अनमोल मेटल, कॉंग्रेस भी प्राधिकृत a five-cent टुकड़ा consisting of आधार मेटल ; the मिंट began striking this version in 1866.
The initial design of the शील्ड निकल थी struck जबतक 1883, तब replaced by the Liberty Head nickel.
the भैंस निकल थी introduced in 1913 as भाग of a ड्राइव to increase the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 and 2005, special designs in सम्मान of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer फेलिक्स schlag 's असली रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ), हालांकि a नई obverse, by Jamie Franki, was substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than eleven cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is exploring the possibility of reducing लागत by using कम महंगी धातुओं.
A poster with पुष्प or क्लस्टर of पुष्प produced by twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering पौधे ( पौधे of the प्रभाग magnoliophyta, भी पुकारा angiosperms ).
The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a यांत्रिकी लिये the संघ of शुक्राणु with eggs.
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a जनसांख्यिकी ) or allow selfing ( संलयन of sperm and egg from the same flower ).
Some flowers produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and are the साईट जहाँ gametophytes develop.
Flowers दे वृद्धि to फल and seeds.
Many flowers have विकसित to be आकर्षक to पशु, so as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
In addition to facilitating the जनन of flowering पौधे, पुष्प have long महरूम admired and used by humans to beautify their environment, and also as objects of romance, ritual, religion, medicine and as a source of food.
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather रणनीतिक सेनानी designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
It is considered among the most successful modern fighters, साथ over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट victories with no losses in dogfights.
Following reviews of proposals, the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a समर्पित एयर बड़प्पन सेनानी.
the त्रिभुज पहला उड़ाया in July 1972, and entered service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the Eagle has been exported to Israel, Japan, सऊदी अरब, और अन्य राष्ट्र.
The f-15 थी originally envisioned as a pure air superiority aircraft.
Its design included a द्वितीयक ground-attack काबिलियत कि was largely unused.
The डिज़ाइन proved लचीली पर्याप्त कि an all-weather strike derivative, the F-15E Strike Eagle, was later developed, and entered service in 1989.
The F-15 Eagle is अपेक्षित to be in सेवा साथ the U.S. Air Force past 2025.
mimio is a ब्रांड नाम of a लकीर of technology products aimed at the education market.
The primary products are केन्द्रित around कंप्यूटर whiteboard interactive teaching devices.
MimioCapture डिवाइस भी allow users to capture all of the ink strokes that are written on the whiteboard.
When used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard सतह into a fully इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard.
The product line was originally designed by आभासी Ink.
On October 4, 2006 newell rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line.
Rahab of जेरिको
Rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the Book of Joshua, a woman who lived in Jericho in the promised जमीन और assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of जोशुआ describe her as a harlot or prostitute.
The संगठन of अमरीकी राज्य ( स्पेनी : organización de लॉस estados americanos, Portuguese : Organização dos Estados Americanos, French : Organisation des États américains ), or the OAS, is a regional international organization.
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948, and has its headquarters in वॉशिंगटन, D.C., United States.
इसके सदस्यों हैं the 35 independent states of the Americas.
चूंकि 26 may 2005, the सचिव General of OAS has been José Miguel Insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo कोलोन ; स्पेनी : cristóbal colón ; पुर्तगाली : cristóvão कोलोन ; before 31 October 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer, navigator, and colonizer, born in the Republic of Genoa, in what is today northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain, he completed four voyages across the Atlantic समंदर कि led to सामान्य यूरोपीय जागरूकता of the अमरीकी महाद्वीपों.
Those voyages, and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
In the context of emerging western साम्राज्यवाद और आर्थिक प्रतियोगिता between यूरोपीय kingdoms seeking माल through the स्थापना of व्यापार रूट और colonies, कोलंबस 's सट्टे प्रस्ताव, to पहुँचें the ईस्ट इंडीज by sailing westward, eventually received the support of the Spanish crown, which saw in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia.
During his first voyage in 1492, instead of reaching Japan as he था intended, कोलंबस उतरा in the बहामा द्वीपसमूह, at a locale he named San Salvador.
Over the course of three more voyages, Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser antilles, as खूब as the caribbean coast of वेनेजुएला and Central America, claiming them for the Spanish Empire.
हालांकि कोलंबस थी नहीं the पहला यूरोपीय एक्सप्लोरर to पहुँचें the americas ( having महरूम preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif Ericson in the 11th century ), Columbus 's voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the Americas, inaugurating a period of European exploration, conquest, and colonization that lasted for several centuries.
They had, इसलिए, an विशाल प्रभाव in the ऐतिहासिक development of the modern Western world.
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the Christian religion.
never admitting कि he था पहुँचे a महाद्वीप previously अनजान to Europeans, rather than the East Indies he had set out for, Columbus called the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and dismissal as governor of the settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला in 1500, और बाद to protracted वाद over the लाभ जिससे कोलंबस और उसके वारिस claimed यहूद owed to उन्हें by the क्राउन.
Bred in Germany, the boxer is a नस्ल of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors are fawn or brindled, साथ or बगैर श्वेत markings, which may cover the entire body.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have व्यापक, छोटी skulls ), और have a वर्गाकार muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), very strong jaws, and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey.
The boxer थी करवाया इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी बुल और the अभी विलुप्त Bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers were first exhibited in a dog show for St. Bernards in Munich in 1895, the पहला boxer क्लबों होने संस्थापित the next year.
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics, Boxers held स्थिर as the सातवाँ सबसे लोकप्रिय नस्ल of श्वान in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the third consecutive year.
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface कि connects मेजबान बस adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार डिवाइस ऐसे as मुश्किल disk drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ), offering several advantages over the पुरानी इंटरफ़ेस : घटाया केबल आकार और लागत ( सात conductors बजाय of 40 ), देशी hot swapping, faster data transfer through higher signalling rates, and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed सीरियल केबल over two pairs of conductors.
In contrast, parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit चौड़ी आंकड़ा बस साथ अनेक अतिरिक्त support और कंट्रोल सिग्नल, सब ऑपरेटिंग at much निम्नतर frequency.
To ensure backward संगतता साथ विरासत ata तन्त्र और अनुप्रयोग, sata uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced समानांतर ata in उपभोक्ता डेस्कटॉप और लैपटॉप कंप्यूटर, and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications.
SATA 's market share in the डेस्कटॉप pc मार्केट थी 99 % in 2008.
pata remains widely प्रयुक्त in औद्योगिक और अंतःस्थापित अनुप्रयोग that use CompactFlash storage, even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA.
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications originate from the सीरियल ata अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( aka.
SATA-IO, serialata.org ).
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, reviews, ratifies, and publishes the interoperability विशेषताएँ, the परीक्षण cases, and plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA content ownership is transferred to अन्य उद्योग लाशें : primarily the incits t13 उपसमिति ata, the incits t10 उपसमिति ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ).
The complete specification इससे SATA-IO.
The remainder of इस आलेख होगा try to use the terminology and specifications of SATA-IO.
The history of the अंतरजाल began with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल उपकरण थी संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड शोध संस्थान ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, were developed in the late 1960s और जल्दी 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols लिये internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined together into a network of networks.
In 1982, the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत, और नतीजतन, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science संजाल ( csnet ) और again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the लेट 1980s and early 1990s.
The arpanet थी decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and कॉमर्स, सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल, तत्काल messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '', two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s, 10-gbit/s, or अधिक.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, कॉमर्स, entertainment, और सोशल नेटवर्किंग.
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle, जिससे थी released on 8 November 2010.
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel `` क्युकी कि थी [ उसके ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the एल्बम प्राप्त a नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a famous imagist कविता by विलियम कार्लोस विलियम्स.
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a major अक्षर और समर्थक of J. K. रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी.
For most of the series, he is the हेडमास्टर of the wizarding school Hogwarts.
As part of his backstory, it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of the Phoenix, an संगठन समर्पित to लड़ the प्रमुख विपक्षी of the series, Lord Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by रिचर्ड हैरिस in the फिल्मी adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
After Harris ' death, माइकल gambon portrayed डम्बल्डोर लिये all of the remaining films.
Rowling stated वो chose the नाम डम्बल्डोर, जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द for `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot ''.
calcitonin ( भी ज्ञात as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino एसिड रैखिक polypeptide हार्मोन that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body.
It acts to reduce blood calcium ( Ca2+ ), opposing the प्रभाव of parathyroid हार्मोन ( PTH ).
calcitonin रै महरूम मिला in मछली, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its महत्व in अन्य पशु, as इसके फलन is प्रायः नहीं significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis.
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein family.
A mousepad साथ a padded wrist rest.
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a surface for रखकर and moving a computer mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing a सतह to allow the ट्रैकिंग led or बॉल ( in पूर्व मॉडल ) to माप गति accurately और बगैर jitter.
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded कलाई rest.
The स्टेडियम देखी इससे above in 1980
December 29, 2002 implosion
The riverfront स्टेडियम site in June, 2006.
This photo was taken from the पश्चिमी concourse of ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल Park.
A छोटी portion of the riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and Museum and Main Street, which was extended when the new park was built.
The Cincinnati bengals ' पॉल भूरा स्टेडियम is in the distance.
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ), later known as Cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ), थी the घर of the सिनसिनाटी लाल नेशनल League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team.
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati, the stadium was best known as the home of `` the बिग रेड यंत्र ``, as the Reds were often called in the 1970s.
Construction began on February 1, 1968, and was completed at a लागत of कम than $ 50 million.
On जून 30, 1970, the लाल hosted the अटलांटा braves in their grand opening, with Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront.
Two weeks later on July 14, 1970, riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख लीग Baseball All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed टक्कर at घर थाली between लाल स्टार पीट रोज़ and catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians.
In September 1996, Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a sponsorship deal साथ वृहद सिनसिनाटी 's उर्जा कम्पनी, Cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to मेक रूम लिये ग्रेट American Ball Park, the seating capacity at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000.
There was a huge wall in Center Field visible after the renovations, to serve as the बैटर 's eye.
The स्टेडियम थी demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in yangsan, दक्षिण gyeongsang प्रांत, and Seoul, both in South Korea.
Its major domestic competitors are hankook टायर और kumho Tires.
The company 's name is reflected in the company slogan, `` अगला सदी टायर. ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority of लोगों in a देश or समूह जो do नहीं एक्स्प्रेस their opinions publicly.
The term was popularized ( हालांकि नहीं पहला प्रयुक्त ) by u.S. अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन in a November 3, 1969, speech in which he said, `` And so tonight—to you, the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the time, who did not join in the counterculture, and who did not participate in पब्लिक प्रवचन.
Nixon along with many others saw this समूह of मध्य अमेरिकी as होने निष्प्रभ in the media by the more vocal minority.
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to सब the लोगों जो have died, और others have used it before and after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world.
Sam, a rhesus monkey, flew to an ऊँचाई of 88 km in 1959.
( नासा )
Before humans went into स्पेस, अनेक पशु यहूद शुभारम्भ into स्पेस, सहित numerous monkeys, so that scientists could investigate the biological effects of space travel.
The United States launched flights containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985.
France शुभारम्भ दो monkey-carrying flights in 1967.
the सोवियत संघ and Russia launched monkeys between 1983 and 1996.
Most बंदरों यहूद anesthetized पहले lift-off.
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the space program ; none उड़ाया अधिक than once.
numerous back-up बंदरों भी went through the programs but never flew.
Monkeys from several species were प्रयुक्त, सहित rhesus बंदरों, cynomolgus बंदरों, गिलहरी monkeys, and pig-tailed macaques.
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes rather than बंदरों ) यहूद also used.
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks, originally अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive डिस्क ) is a भंडार प्रौद्योगिकी कि combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '', depending on the स्तर of अतिरेक and performance required.
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David पैटरसन, garth A. गिब्सन, और रैंडी katz at the University of California, Berkeley in 1987.
Marketers representing industry रेड निर्माताओं बाद attempted to reinvent the पद to describe a अनावश्यक सरणी of independent disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is अभी प्रयुक्त as an छतरियाँ पद लिये कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा भंडार योजनाएं कि can divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक physical drives : RAID is an example of storage virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive.
The अलग योजनाएं or architectures हैं named by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
प्रत्येक योजना provides a अलग संतुलन between the कुंजी लक्ष्य : विश्वसनीयता and availability, performance and capacity.
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable ( सेक्टर ) पढ़ा त्रुटियाँ, as खूब as पूरे डिस्क विफलता.
A lymphocyte is a type of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy film written and निर्देशित by जोएल और ethan Coen.
जेफ़ पुलों सितारों as जेफ़ lebowski, an unemployed Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
After a case of mistaken पहचान, the यार is introduced to a millionaire also named Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire lebowski 's ट्रॉफी बीवी is बाद kidnapped, he आयोग The Dude to deliver the ransom to secure her release.
The plan goes awry जब the यार 's dost वाल्टर sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the full ransom.
Steve Buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, David Huddleston, Julianne Moore, Tara Reid, and John Turturro भी स्टार in the फिल्मी, जिससे is narrated by a काउंटी ज्ञात तभी as `` the अजनबी '', निभाई by Sam Elliott.
The film is loosely inspired by the कार्य of रेमंड चांडलर.
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically, and deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery, as खूब as having a hopelessly जटिल प्लाट कि 's ultimately unimportant. ''
The original score was composed by Carter burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big Lebowski was a disappointment at the U.S. box office and प्राप्त मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ at the time of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the positive over समय, और the फिल्मी रै become a cult पसंदीदा, noted for its idiosyncratic characters, dream sequences, unconventional dialogue, and eclectic soundtrack.
Severus Snape is a fictional character in the Harry कुम्हार किताब श्रेणी लिखा by j.K. रोलिंग.
In the first novel of the series, he is hostile toward Harry and is built up to be the प्राथमिक विपक्षी जबतक the फाइनल chapters.
As the series progresses, Snape 's character becomes अधिक परतदार और complex.
Rowling does not fully reveal the विवरण of उसके सच्चा loyalties जबतक the समाप्त of the फाइनल book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Over the course of the series, Snape 's portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to कि of a pivotal अक्षर of considerable जटिलता and moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts, though in the sixth novel he teaches Defence विरूद्ध the अंधेरा कला, a स्थिति जिससे he थी ज्ञात to have desired throughout the श्रेणी.
He ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर of हॉग्वार्ट्स in the फाइनल novel.
Rowling रै वर्णित उसे as `` a gift of a character ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn खाना of देशी अमरीकी उत्पत्ति, कि is common in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast.
आधुनिक grits हैं commonly made of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are similar to other मोटा maize-based porridges इससे around the संसार such as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` Instant grits '' have महरूम processed to speed cooking.
The word `` grits '' गर्भाशयी इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी word `` grytt, '' meaning coarse meal.
This word originally referred to गेहूं और अन्य porridges अभी known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in यूरोपीय in the मध्य आयु, is a खाना निकला इससे corn ( a New World plant ) and `` corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically, in the American South the word was invariably एकवचन notwithstanding इसके बहुवचन रूप ( cf. ऐसे खाना names as `` स्पघेटी '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( इससे a देशी अमरीकी muskogee word ).
In molecular biology, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors उपज इस हार्मोन ; इसलिए, elevated स्तर measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether this production is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary analogue of hcg, ज्ञात as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
The Las Vegas स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य चूंकि March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, जिससे is तब sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then बेचें, वितरित और merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और food service distributors.
the coca-cola कम्पनी रै, on अवसर, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
The most आम of ये is आहार कोक, साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of independence, who is charged with representing the रूचि of the पब्लिक by investigating और संबोधित शिकायत of maladministration or violation of rights.
In some countries an Inspector General, नागरिक एडवोकेट or अन्य आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य समान to those of a national ombudsman, and may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or municipal government, and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or even work for, a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a समाचारपत्र, for an NGO, or for a professional regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the legislature, the executive, or an organization ( or, less अक्सर, निर्वाचित by the constituency कि he or वो serves ), the ठेठ कर्तव्य of an ombudsman हैं to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them, usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading to ग़रीब सेवा or breaches of लोगों 's अधिकारों.
At the national level, most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with the संपूर्ण पब्लिक सेक्टर, और sometimes भी तत्व of the private sector ( for example, contracted service providers ).
In some cases, there is a more प्रतिबंधित जनादेश, लिये उदाहरण साथ particular sectors of society.
More recent developments have included the creation of specialised children 's ombudsman और सूचना Commissioner agencies.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national सरकारी is अधिक formally referred to as the `` संसदीय कमिश्नर '' ( e.g. the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ).
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to promoting और protecting इंसान अधिकारों, the ombudsman is recognised as the नेशनल इंसान rights institution.
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by सबसे सरकारें और by कुछ intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union.
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is प्रायः फ़्री of charge.
Sign at georgetown विश्वविद्यालयों Washington DC
Sign in बांजुल, The Gambia
Autumn in New इंग्लैण्ड, watercolor, Maurice Prendergast.
ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the town of Stowe, Vermont
नई इंग्लैण्ड is a प्रदेश in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
New England is bordered by New York state to the दक्षिणपश्चिम, क्यूबेक to the northwest, and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east.
In one of the earliest English settlements in North अमेरिका, तीर्थयात्रियों इससे इंग्लैण्ड first settled in New England in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony.
Ten years later, the puritans settled उत्तर of plymouth उपनिवेश in Boston, thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Over the next 130 years, New इंग्लैण्ड लड़ा in चार फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों, जबतक the अंग्रेजों पराजित the French and their native allies in North America.
in the लेट 18th सदी, the नई इंग्लैण्ड colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the अंग्रेजों Parliament 's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of दंडात्मक कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government, जिससे यहूद termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to खोलें warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों अधिकारियों from New England in spring 1776, and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.
Some of the first movements of अमरीकी साहित्य, दर्शनशास्त्र, and education originated in New England.
The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery, and was the first region of the United राज्य to be रूपांतरित by the औद्योगिक Revolution.
Today, New इंग्लैण्ड is a प्रमुख संसार बीच of education, high technology, insurance, and medicine.
Boston is its cultural, financial, शैक्षणिक, चिकित्सा और परिवहन center.
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities ज्ञात as नई इंग्लैण्ड कस्बों, जिससे हैं प्रायः governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in नई इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse, उत्तरी regions of वर्मांट, नई हैम्पशायर, and Maine.
Since 1970, voters have more often supported liberal candidates at the राज्य और संघीय स्तर than those of any other region in the United States.
New England is the only one of the United States Census ब्यूरो 's नौ क्षेत्रीय विभाजन जिनकी नाम करता नहीं derive इससे इसके भूगोल, और it is the तभी multi-state प्रदेश साथ clear, consistent boundaries.
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity set अलावा इससे the बाकी of the देश, हालांकि the शर्तें of इस पहचान हैं प्रायः लडे, combining Puritanism with liberalism, agrarian life with industry, and isolation with immigration.
आपात !
is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी that combines the medical drama and action-adventure genres.
It was produced by Mark VII Limited and वितरित by सार्वभौमिक Studios.
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15, 1972, on NBC, replacing the two short-lived श्रेणी the साझेदार और the शुभ जीवन, और भागा जबतक सितंबर 3, 1977, साथ छह अतिरिक्त two-hour टेलीविज़न films during the following two years.
आपात !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and Robert A. Cinader, both of whom यहूद भी जिम्मेदार लिये the पुलिस dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet.
The Eastern Time मण्डल ( et ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the पूर्वी भाग of the संलग्न संयुक्त States, parts of Canada and three countries in South America.
स्थान कि उपयोग पूर्वी Standard Time ( EST ) when observing standard time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ), when observing daylight छायांकन समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
In the northern parts of the time zone, during the second Sunday in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. edt leaving a एक घंटा `` गैप. ''
During the first Sunday in नवम्बर, at 2:00 a.m. edt, clocks are moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus `` duplicating '' one hour.
Southern parts of the मण्डल ( पनामा और the caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving.
मानक रूप of the periodic table.
The colors represent अलग श्रेणी of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements, organized on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, और पुनरावर्ती chemical properties.
Elements are presented in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( क्रमांक of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह, साथ कुछ of ये having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates recurring trends, any such तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the गुण of the तत्व और predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और ऐसे टेबल हैं widely प्रयुक्त in रसायन और अन्य sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the गुण of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also पूर्वानुमानित कुछ गुण of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table.
सबसे of उसके पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved सही जब the elements in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been विस्तारित और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व और the विकास of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम खोजा or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts और यहूद initially खोजा by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have only महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minecraft is a सैंडबॉक्स इंडी खेल originally निर्मित by स्वीडिश programmer Markus `` Notch '' Persson and later developed and published by Mojang.
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha version और, बाद क्रमिक अद्यतन, थी प्रकाशित as a पूरा रिलीज version on November 18, 2011.
A version for Android was released a माह पहले on अक्तूबर 7, और an आईओएस संस्करण थी released on November 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the game was released on एक्सबॉक्स 360 as an एक्सबॉक्स सजीव आर्केड खेल, co-developed by 4J Studios.
All versions of minecraft प्राप्त आवधिक अद्यतन.
The रचनात्मक और भवन पहलुओं of minecraft allow खिलाड़ी to निर्माण constructions out of textured cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world.
Other activities in the खेल शामिल खोजी, महफ़िल resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival, which requires players to acquire resources and maintain their health and भूख ; और रचनात्मक, जहाँ खिलाड़ी have an असीमित सप्लाई of संसाधन, the क्षमता to fly, and no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival, differing only in परेशानी ; it is नियत to hardest सेटिंग और respawning is निष्क्रिय, forcing खिलाड़ी to हटाएँ उनके संसार upon death.
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 खेल डेवलपर सम्मेलन : it थी awarded the नवीनता पुरस्कार, बेहतरीन downloadable Game Award, and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game Developers Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award, as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, Minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick पुरस्कार in the श्रेणी बेहतरीन downloadable खेल.
As of April 8, 2013, the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC and as of January 22, 2013, over 20 लाख नक़ल आरपार सब प्लेटफ़ॉर्म.
The Dark नाईट is a 2008 british-american सुपरहीरो फिल्मी निर्देशित, उत्पादित, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the film is the second भाग of नोलन 's बैटमैन फिल्मी series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman, with a returning cast of माइकल caine as अल्फ्रेड pennyworth, गेरी oldman as जेम्स गॉर्डन और मॉर्गन Freeman as Lucius Fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly elected ज़िला attorney और the consort of ब्रूस वेन 's बाल्यकाल dost रेचल dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ), जो joins बैटमैन and the police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
नोलन 's प्रेरणा लिये the फिल्मी थी the जोकर 's कॉमिक किताब डेब्यू in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel, and the 1996 series, which retold Two-Face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to Batman in बैटमैन no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a स्टोरी लिखा by Bill Finger.
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in शिकागो, as खूब as in several other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences, सहित the जोकर 's पहला appearance in the film.
On January 22, 2008, some months after he had completed filming on the अंधेरा नाईट और छह महीने पहले the फिल्मी 's रिलीज, Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs, leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public.
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The अंधेरा नाईट, विकासशील promotional वेबसाइटों और trailers highlighting स्क्रीन shots of Ledger as the Joker, but after Ledger 's death, the studio refocused its promotional campaign.
The Dark Knight was released on जुलाई 16, 2008 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, on जुलाई 18, 2008 in North America, and on July 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever made, the फिल्मी प्राप्त अत्यधिक धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ और नियत numerous records during its theatrical run.
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time, unadjusted for inflation.
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for Best Sound संपादन और लेजर थी मरणोपरांत awarded बेहतरीन supporting कर्ता.
The Dark Knight Rises, the final part of the trilogy, was released on जुलाई 20, 2012.
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio, the technology and events that produced यंत्र कि उपयोग रेडियो लहरें और क्रियाएँ कि people undertook.
Later, the history is वर्चस्व by प्रोग्रामिंग और सामग्री, जिससे is closer to general history.
The Sydney ओपेरा हाउस is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, Australia.
It was conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon, opening in 1973 बाद a long gestation कि began साथ उसके competition-winning design in 1957.
Joseph Cahill 's New दक्षिण वेल्स सरकारी दिया the go-ahead for work to begin in 1958.
The government 's bold decision to select Utzon 's design is often overshadowed by the कांड कि followed.
It is on bennelong पाइंट in सिडनी Harbour, close to the Sydney Harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the CBD ), घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Contrary to its name, it घरों अनेक प्रदर्शन venues.
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world, hosting over 1,500 प्रदर्शन प्रत्येक साल attended by कुछ 1.2 लाख लोगों.
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies, including the four key resident companies Opera Australia, The Australian Ballet, the Sydney Theatre Company and the सिडनी सिंफनी ऑर्केस्ट्रा, and presents a wide range of productions on its own account.
It is also one of the most popular visitor आकर्षण in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, साथ अधिक than सात लाख people visiting each year, 300,000 of whom take a guided tour.
It is administered by the सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस विश्वास, under the New South Wales Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 जून 2007, it थी बना a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
It is one of the 20th सदी 's सबसे distinctive buildings and one of the most famous performing arts centres in the world.
A graph of body mass index as a function of देह द्रव्यमान और देह ऊँचाई is shown above.
The dashed lines represent subdivisions भीतर a प्रमुख क्लास.
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further विभाजित into `` severe '', `` moderate '', and `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass index ( BMI ), or Quetelet index, is a measure for human देह आकार आधारित on an व्यक्तिगत 's वज़न और height.
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the belgian बहुश्रुत adolphe quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of विकासशील `` social physics ''.
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's देह द्रव्यमान विभाजित by the वर्गाकार of उनके height.
The formulae universally प्रयुक्त in आयुर्विज्ञान उपज a ईकाई of measure of kg/m2.
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart, which displays BMI as a function of weight ( horizontal axis ) and height ( लंबवत अक्ष ) using रुपरेखा लाइनों लिये अलग मान of बीएमआई or रंगों लिये अलग बीएमआई श्रेणी.
† The factor for UK/US units is more precisely 703.06957964, लकिन कि स्तर of परिशुद्धता is not meaningful for this calculation.
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the stone by 14 then add the pounds to give the whole mass in pounds ; to कार्य इससे फीट और इंच पहला गुणा the फीट by 12 तब add the इंच to दे the whole height in inches.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( NS February 9, 1737 ) – June 8, 1809 ) was an english-american राजनैतिक activist, लेखक, राजनैतिक theorist और revolutionary.
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the American क्रान्ति, he प्रेरित the देशप्रेमी in 1776 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता from Britain.
His ideas reflected Enlightenment era rhetoric of transnational human rights.
He has महरूम पुकारा `` a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by profession, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, England, in the county of Norfolk, Paine emigrated to the अंग्रेजों अमरीकी colonies in 1774 साथ the सहायता of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन और he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution.
His principal contributions were the powerful, widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain, और the अमरीकी संकट ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential कि जॉन एडम्स कहा, `` बगैर the कलम of the लेखक of आम भाव, the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine जिया in फ़्रांस लिये सबसे of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the French Revolution.
He लिखा the अधिकारों of man ( 1791 ), in part a defence of the French Revolution against its critics.
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction in absentia in 1792 लिये the अपराधों of seditious मानहानि.
In 1792, despite not being able to speak French, he was elected to the फ्रेंच नेशनल सम्मेलन.
The girondists regarded him as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, especially robespierre, regarded उसे as an enemy.
In December 1793, he was arrested and imprisoned in पेरिस, तब released in 1794.
He became बदनाम क्युकी of the आयु of कारण ( 1793–94 ), उसके किताब कि अधिवक्ताओं देववाद, promotes reason and freethinking, and argues against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular.
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of property, और introduced the अवधारणा of a गारंटी minimum income.
In 1802, he returned to America where he died on जून 8, 1809.
Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his उपहास of christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically, information परिचय प्रतिकूल ड्रग प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of अन्य उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य interventions ( e.g., दवाएँ, नैदानिक, डिवाइस, चिकित्सा प्रोटोकॉल ).
They are conducted only after संतोषजनक सूचना रै महरूम gathered on the विशेषता of the गैर नैदानिक safety, and health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought.
Previously, many emerging countries did नहीं आवश्यकता लोकल ट्रायल लिये उत्पाद approvals.
Now, though emerging countries still accept data from u.s./europe, वे भी आवश्यकता some local trials.
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its विकास, जांचकर्ताओं initially enroll स्वयंसेवक and/or मरीजों into small pilot studies, and subsequently conduct larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest.
As positive safety and efficacy आंकड़ा हैं gathered, the क्रमांक of patients is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in आकार, और can involve a सिंगल शोध entity in one country or many such entities in multiple countries.
A full series of ट्रायल may incur sizable लागत, और the बोझ of paying लिये सब the जरुरी लोगों and services is usually borne by the sponsor, which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the प्रायोजक, a नैदानिक विचारण is प्रबंधित by an outsourced संगी, ऐसे as a अनुबंध शोध संगठन or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector.
The ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स हैं an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the North प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, having महरूम व्यवस्थित और playing in 1919.
The पैकर्स हैं the only non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were एकबार आम in the एनएफएल दौरान the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) और जार्ज व्हिटनी calhoun, the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base and media extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी निभाई चयनित home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल history, dating back to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl दारू ), the वही प्रकार of दारू मिला in alcoholic beverages.
It is सबसे प्रायः used as a motor fuel, mainly as a biofuel additive for gasoline.
World ethanol production for हस्तांतरण ईंधन tripled between 2000 और 2007 इससे 17 अरब to more than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global gasoline प्रकार ईंधन उपयोग increased इससे 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ), साथ the संयुक्त राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), हिसाब लिये 62.2 % of global production, followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of, which means 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one gallon of gasoline.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United राज्य, और साथ दोनो देशों were responsible for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011.
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol, and इथेनॉल represented 10 % of the u.S. गैसोलीन ईंधन सप्लाई निकला इससे घरेलू स्त्रोत in 2011.
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to मिश्रण इथेनॉल साथ गैसोलीन, और चूंकि 2007 the विधिक मिश्रण is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel ऑटोमोबाइल और लाइट trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ).
Bioethanol is a form of renewable energy that can be उत्पादित इससे agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very common crops such as शुगर cane, आलू, manioc और मकई.
There has been considerable debate about how useful bioethanol होगा be in replacing गैसोलीन.
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required for crops, as well as the energy और प्रदूषण संतुलन of the पूरे साईकिल of इथेनॉल उत्पादन, विशेषकर इससे मकई.
हाल developments with cellulosic ethanol production and commercialization may allay some of these concerns.
cellulosic इथेनॉल offers वादा क्युकी cellulose मछली, a major and universal component in plant cells walls, can be used to produce ethanol.
According to the International Energy Agency, cellulosic ethanol could allow इथेनॉल fuels to खेल a much बडे भूमिका in the भविष्य than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 sportcombi biopower.
The दूसरी e85 flexifuel मॉडल introduced by Saab in the Swedish market.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987, पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 और प्लैक changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo हत्या ( चित्र taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, सोफी, duchess of hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, एक of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be संयुक्त into a वृहद सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया.
The assassins ' motives were सतत साथ the गति that later became known as Young Bosnia.
Serbian सैन्य अधिकारियों stood behind the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević, his righthand man Major Vojislav tankosić, और masterspy rade malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the assassins साथ बम और pistols और trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल, और the कुंजी Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia यहूद आजमाया in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known परिचय the assassinations आता इससे these two trials and related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी actress and producer.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ), and subsequently प्राप्त दो nominations लिये the अकादमी Award for Best Actress for her roles as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ), and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her प्रदर्शन in the नाटक ठंडा पहाड़ ( 2003 ).
She has won an Academy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, three Screen Actors Guild Awards, and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty खीर 's स्त्री of the साल in 2009 ; और स्थापित herself as एक of the highest-paid हॉलीवुड अभिनेत्रियों as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also पुकारा auditory ossicles ) हैं the तीन smallest हड्डियों in the human body, the malleus, the incus and the stapes.
They are contained within the middle ear space and serve to संचारण ध्वनि इससे the एयर to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
The term `` ossicles '' वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` छोटा हड्डियों '' और commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally निकला इससे a phrase in the किताब of यिर्मयाह, in the यहूदी Scriptures.
It is often thought of as an eschatological मुक्तिदाता आयु or संसार to आइये और is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God.
Generally, ईसाइयों मानना कि the नई वचन थी instituted at the पिछला भोजन as भाग of the eucharist, which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant, as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an जारी संबंध between ईसाई ईमानवालों और परमेश्वर कि होगा be in पूरा फलीभूत बाद the दूसरी coming of मसीह ; कि is, it होगा नहीं only be in full fruition in believing hearts, but in the future external world as well.
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in most modern English translations of the New Testament with the saying : `` इस कप कि is poured आउट लिये you is the new covenant in my blood ''.
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New Covenant, and that the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the जरूरी रक्त of the वचन.
As with all covenants between God and man described in the Bible, the New Covenant is considered `` a bond in रक्त sovereignly administered by परमेश्वर. ''
It रै महरूम theorized कि the नई Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount.
The following सूची of लोगों pardoned or granted दया by the President of the United States documents the most prominent cases of each presidency.
As granted by the Constitution ( आलेख ii, खण्ड 2, clause 1 ), राष्ट्रपतियों have the power to grant clemency in one or more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon, to commute a sentence, or to rescind a fine.
U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों have no शक्ति to ग्रान्ट clemency for crimes prosecuted under state law.
As to the difference between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an कार्यपालिका order vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently सेवारत a वाक्य लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies were जारी by u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों in the 20th सदी अलोन.
the रिकॉर्ड of अधिनियमों of दया were public until 1934.
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was created and रिकॉर्ड इससे अध्यक्ष H. W. बुश आगे are now listed.
इस सूची शामिल pardons and commutations.
tampa ( ) is a नगर in the U.S. state of Florida.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is स्तिथ on the वेस्ट coast of फ्लोरिडा, on tampa Bay near the Gulf of Mexico.
the जनसांख्यिकी of Tampa in 2011 was 346,037.
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by स्वदेशी peoples of the सुरक्षा हार्बर संस्कृति, सबसे notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly छान by स्पेनी explorers in the जल्दी 16th सदी, लकिन वहीँ यहूद no स्थाई अमरीकी or European settlements within today 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the United States Army established a frontier outpost पुकारा फोर्ट ब्रुक at the mouth of the Hillsborough River, near the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center.
The first civilian residents were pioneers who settled निकट the फोर्ट लिये सुरक्षा इससे the आसपास Seminole population.
The town grew slowly until the 1880s, when railroad links, the discovery of phosphate, and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's विकास और helped it to grow into an महत्वपूर्ण नगर by the जल्दी 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a part of the metropolitan area most commonly referred to as the tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल.
For U.S. Census purposes, Tampa is भाग of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents, making it the दूसरी largest महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( MSA ) in the state, and the fourth largest in the Southeastern United States, behind Miami, Washington, D.C., and Atlanta.
The Greater tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रै बस over 4 million residents and generally includes the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas.
The Tampa Bay साझेदारी और u.S. जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़ा दिखाया an औसत annual growth of 2.47 percent, or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the वृहद tampa खाड़ी मार्केट अनुभवी a combined growth rate of 14.8 percent, growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 million and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 लोगों और a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 people.
Tampa has a number of sports teams, such as the tampa खाड़ी buccaneers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League, the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League, and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the North अमरीकी सॉकर लीग खेल उनके घर खेल in neighboring St. Petersburg, Florida.
In 2008, Tampa was क्रमित as the 5th बेहतरीन बाहरी नगर by Forbes.
A 2004 survey by the NYU समाचारपत्र वॉशिंगटन वर्गाकार न्यूज क्रमित tampa as a top city for `` twenty-somethings. ''
Tampa is now क्रमित as a `` गामा '' संसार नगर by Loughborough University.
according to loughborough, tampa बाँधने alongside other world cities such as Phoenix, Santo Domingo, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market demand from consumers, signaling more माल concentrated in the क्षेत्रफल.
Tampa hosted the 2012 रिपब्लिकन National Convention.
The Chevrolet cavalier थी a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल produced from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
Built on the company 's J platform, the cavalier उत्पादित the उच्चतम बिक्री in 1984.
AT & T गतिशीलता llc ब्रांडेड और referred to as at & t ( formerly cingular बेतार llc ), is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of AT & T Inc. that provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
AT & T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States and Puerto Rico, behind Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 लाख ग्राहक as of the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012.
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the lenox पार्क क्षेत्रफल of dekalb co. जॉर्जिया, just outside Atlanta.
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007, a संयुक्त venture between sbc संचार और bellsouth, the कम्पनी acquired the बूढ़ा at & t बेतार in 2004 ; sbc later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly स्वामित्व by at & t in December 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth.
In January 2007, Cingular confirmed it would re-brand itself अंतर्गत the at & t नाम.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, for both regulatory and brand-awareness reasons both brands यहूद प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's साइनेज और विज्ञापन दौरान a परिवर्तन period.
The परिवर्तन concluded in लेट जून, बस prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, AT & T गतिशीलता घोषित इसके इरादे to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion.
If it had received government and regulatory स्वीकृति, at & t होता have था अधिक than 130 million subscribers.
However, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Communications Commission, and AT & T Mobility 's competitors ( such as स्प्रिंट nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds कि it होता reduce प्रतियोगिता in the cellular communications market.
In December 2011, in the face of both governmental and widespread उपभोक्ता विपक्ष, at & t withdrew उनके प्रस्ताव to complete the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – अप्रैल 4, 1968 ) was an American clergyman, activist, and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
He is best known for उसके भूमिका in the उन्नति of civil rights using nonviolent civil disobedience.
King has become a national icon in the history of अमरीकी प्रगतिवाद.
A बैपटिस्ट मंत्री, किंग became a सिविल अधिकारों activist early in his career.
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped found the दक्षिणी ईसाई नेतृत्व सम्मेलन ( sclc ) in 1957, सेवारत as इसके पहला president.
With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against पृथक्करण in albany, जॉर्जिया, in 1962, और व्यवस्थित nonviolent protests in Birmingham, Alabama, that attracted national attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response.
King also helped to organize the 1963 March on Washington, where he वितरित उसके `` i Have a Dream `` speech.
There, he established his प्रतिष्ठा as एक of the महानतम orators in American history.
He also स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a कट्टरपंथी, और became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for the rest of his life.
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, recorded his extramarital liaisons और reported on उन्हें to सरकारी officials, और on एक अवसर, mailed किंग a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.
On अक्तूबर 14, 1964, किंग प्राप्त the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार for combating racial inequality through nonviolence.
In 1965, he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to मोंटगोमरी marches और the following साल, he took the गति उत्तर to Chicago.
In the final years of his life, King विस्तारित उसके फ़ोकस to शामिल गरीबी और the वियतनाम युद्ध, alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was planning a national occupation of Washington, D.C., पुकारा the ग़रीब लोगों 's अभियान.
King थी assassinated on अप्रैल 4, 1968, in Memphis, Tennessee.
His मौत थी followed by riots in many U.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing किंग, था महरूम framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ सरकारी एजेंटों persisted लिये दशकों after the shooting, and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King.
King was awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता और the congressional Gold Medal posthumously.
Martin Luther King, Jr. दिन थी स्थापित as a u.S. federal holiday in 1986.
सैंकड़ों of गलियों in the u.S. have been renamed in his honor.
A memorial statue on the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली to the public in 2011.
The बाघ ( पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest cat species, reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to.
It is the तीसरा largest जमीन carnivore ( behind only the polar bear and the brown bear ).
Its most recognizable feature is a पैटर्न of अंधेरा लंबवत stripes on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside.
It has exceptionally stout दांत, और the canines हैं the longest among living felids with a crown height of as much as or even.
In zoos, tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years, which also seems to be उनके आयु in the wild.
They are territorial और generally एकान्त लकिन सोशल पशु, often requiring large contiguous areas of habitat that support their prey requirements.
This, coupled with the fact that they are indigenous to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी places on Earth, has caused significant conflicts with humans.
Tigers एकबार ranged widely आरपार एशिया, from Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their historic range, और have महरूम extirpated इससे दक्षिणपश्चिम और सेंट्रल एशिया, इससे the आइलैंड्स of Java and Bali, and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, they range इससे the siberian ताइगा to open grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps.
The बाकी छह बाघ subspecies have महरूम वर्गीकृत as endangered by IUCN.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals, bas इससे around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th century, with most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other.
प्रमुख कारण लिये जनसांख्यिकी decline include habitat destruction, habitat fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by tigers is estimated at less than, a 41 % मनाही इससे the क्षेत्रफल अनुमानित in the mid-1990s.
Tigers are among the most recognisable और लोकप्रिय of the world 's charismatic megafauna.
They have प्रदर्शित prominently in ancient mythology and folklore, and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature.
Tigers appear on many flags, coats of बाहें, और as mascots for sporting teams.
The बंगाल बाघ is the नेशनल animal of both India and Bangladesh.
The simplified आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the calvin साईकिल and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ कि बदलें कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अन्य यौगिकों into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions take the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ, collectively पुकारा the calvin cycle : carbon fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its name, this प्रक्रम occurs तभी when light is available.
पौधे do नहीं carry out the Calvin cycle by night.
They, instead, release sucrose into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 कार्बन fixation, और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक night and release it by day in order to make this process work.
A linen handkerchief with pulled लड़ी कढ़ाई around the किनारे
Linen cloth recovered from qumran गुफा 1 निकट the Dead Sea.
Linen ( ) is a वस्त्र बना इससे the मछली of the flax plant, Linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, लकिन जब it is बना into garments, it is valued for its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather.
The word `` लिनेन '' is of वेस्ट germanic उत्पत्ति और cognates with the Latin name for the flax plant linum, and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ).
This word history has given rise to a number of other terms in अंग्रेज़ी, the सबसे notable of जिससे is the अंग्रेज़ी word line, derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
Textiles in a linen weave texture, even when made of cotton, hemp and other non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` लिनेन ''.
Such fabrics generally have their own specific names other than linen ; for example, fine कपास धागे in a linen-style बुनते is पुकारा madapolam.
The सामूहिक पद `` linens `` is स्टिल प्रायः प्रयुक्त generically to describe a क्लास of woven and even knitted bed, bath, table and kitchen textiles.
the नाम linens is retained because traditionally, linen was used for many of these items.
In the past, the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a word also cognate with linen ), and detachable shirt collars और cuffs, जिससे यहूद historically बना लगभग exclusively आउट of लिनेन.
The inside cloth layer of fine composite कपडे garments ( as लिये example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen, and this is the origin of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the संसार : उनके इतिहास goes वापस अनेक हज़ारों of सालो.
Fragments of straw, seeds, मछली, yarns, और विभिन्न प्रकार of fabrics which date back to about 8000 BC have been found in Swiss lake dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics from जंगली flax may तिथि back even earlier to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes प्रयुक्त as करेंसी in प्राचीन Egypt.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because it was seen as a symbol of लाइट और पवित्रता, और as a display of wealth.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, यहूद बहुत ठीक लिये उनके day, but are coarse compared to modern linen.
Today, linen is प्रायः an महंगी वस्त्र, और is produced in relatively small quantities.
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual fiber लंबाई ) सापेक्ष to कपास और अन्य natural fibers.
Many products are made of linen : aprons, बैग, तौलिये ( swimmers, नहाना, बीच, देह और धो तौलिये ), napkins, bed linens, linen tablecloths, runners, chair covers, and men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the दूसरी संसार War.
The current champions हैं स्पेन, जो won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ the host nation ( s ).
The 19 संसार कप tournaments have been won by eight different national teams.
Brazil have जीती पाँच टाइम्स, और वे are the only team to have played in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next three World Cups will be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, रूस in 2018, और क़तर in 2022.
The is an विस्तार यंत्र लिये the Wii Remote video game controller for the Wii that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion.
According to निन्टेंडो, the सेंसर in the यंत्र पूरक the accelerometer and Sensor Bar capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time.
The Wii 's successor कंसोल, the वी u, supports the वी motionplus and its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
Majulah Singapura ( Onward सिंगापुर ) is the नेशनल गान of सिंगापुर.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a थीम सोंग लिये आधिकारिक कृत्यों of the City Council of Singapore, the song was selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon full स्वतंत्रता in 1965, majulah singapura थी formally अपनाया as Singapore 's national anthem.
By law the anthem may only be sung with its original Malay lyrics, although there exist authorized अनुवाद of the गीत of the गान in सिंगापुर 's तीन अन्य official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the कुंजी of g प्रमुख, in 2001 the नेशनल गान थी officially relaunched in the lower key of F major as this was said to allow for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement ''.
The national anthem is regularly performed or सुंग in स्कूलों और हथियारबंद शक्तियां शिविरों at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day, during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on अवसरों of नेशनल जश्न or नेशनल significance ऐसे as at the नेशनल दिन परेड, at नेशनल Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments, and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights भवन a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the निर्माण of जहाजों and floating vessels.
It normally takes place in a specialized सुविधा ज्ञात as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, also called shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation कि traces इसके जड़ें to पहले अंकित history.
Shipbuilding and ship repairs, both commercial और सैन्य, हैं referred to as `` naval engineering ''.
The construction of नौकाएँ is a समान कार्यकलाप called boat building.
The dismantling of ships is पुकारा जलयान तोड़कर.
Wakonda is a कस्बा in मिट्टी County, South Dakota, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 321 at the 2010 census.
The following is a सूची of the सबसे populous incorporated places of the United States of America.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations, सहित नगर, कस्बा, गाँव, बरो, और municipality.
A few असाधारण जनसांख्यिकी designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं भी included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि शामिल the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated स्थान.
This list presents only कि portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of ऐसे संचित city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities भीतर उनके पारिभाषित हद, जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident when considering u.S. महानगर area populations.
alt=larger flashcart, shown with small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to स्टोर a licensed डेवलपर 's work-in-progress बिंब, homebrew वीडियो खेल और डाउनलोड commercial games ( since the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ).
licensed डेवलपर, however, can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards.
These devices are also known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two प्रमुख वर्ग of flashcarts : पुरानी डिवाइस जिससे fit in Slot-2 ( the Game Boy Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use with Game Boy Advance ), but require a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to उपयोग the टच स्क्रीन और अन्य ds सुविधाएँ.
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA homebrew, but became less महंगी और easier to उपयोग, rivaling अनेक slot-2 डिवाइस in price.
First-generation devices शामिल gba फ्लैश कारतूस, gbamp CF, SuperCard, and M3.
Second-generation devices शामिल r4 क्रान्ति, cyclods, G6 Real and DS-X.
The storage यंत्र either contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a स्लॉट लिये a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage devices with a memory-card slot usually have more storage capacity than flash-memory डिवाइस.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ), memory-card capacity is प्रायः measured in मेगाबाइट ( mb ) ( जहाँ 8 Mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and Game Boy Advance roms ; खास सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as क्षमता to खेल मीडिया फाइलें ) ; physical size and cost.
Strictly speaking, a storage device is नहीं जरुरी लिये ds साथ flashme installed because homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB.
However, this is not an easily-portable विधि क्युकी the ds needs to be भीतर range of a suitable Wi-Fi card.
हैं अमरीकी people of Japanese heritage.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the तीन largest एशियाई अमरीकी समुदायों, लकिन in हाल दशकों, it has become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286, including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest जापानी अमरीकी समुदायों यहूद मिला in California with 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, New York with 37,780, Washington with 35,008, and Illinois with 17,542.
Southern California has the largest japanese-american population in North America.
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant उपलब्धियाँ और माइलस्टोन आधारित upon बिलबोर्ड magazine 's singles charts, most notably the Billboard Hot 100.
इस सूची spans इससे the issue dated January 1, 1955 to present.
The Billboard hot 100 began साथ the issue dated August 4, 1958, and is currently the standard popular music chart in the United States.
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100, Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best विक्रेता in स्टोर्स '', `` सबसे निभाई by Jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These charts, which ranged from 20 to 100 slots, यहूद phased आउट at अलग times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically नहीं भाग of the hot 100 चार्ट इतिहास, their data is included for computational purposes, and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era, unless वरना विख्यात ( pre-hot 100 चार्ट ).
V is an अमरीकी विज्ञान fiction टेलीविज़न श्रेणी that ran for two seasons on ABC, from November 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the new series chronicles the आगमन on धरती of a technologically उन्नत एलियन प्रजाति जिससे ostensibly आता in सलाम, लकिन actually has sinister motives.
V stars Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, मॉरिस शाहबलूत, जोएल gretsch, लोगन huffman, चार्ल्स mesure, एलिज़ाबेथ मिशेल, लौरा Vandervoort and Scott Wolf, and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum, Yves Simoneau, Scott Peters, and Jace Hall.
The series was produced by the स्कॉट पीटर्स कम्पनी, hdfilms और warner Bros. Television.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational कार्यकलाप, in जिससे the भागीदार उपयोग a वैश्विक Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers, called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the तिथि वे मिला it और लक्षण it साथ उनके स्थापित कोड नाम.
After signing into the log, the cache must be placed वापस exactly जहाँ the person found it.
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( tupperware or समान ) or ammunition बाक्स can भी contain items for trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip हॉप समूह कि थी originally रचित of krs-one, d-nice, और dj Scott La Rock.
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on अगस्त 27, 1987, महीने बाद the रिलीज of BDP 's debut album, Criminal Minded.
The name of the group, बोगी bas, गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम for the South Bronx section of The Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New York City.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in the दक्षिण bronx of the लेट 1980s यूँ सेटिंग the स्टेज लिये कया होता आखिरकार become gangsta rap.
a नगरपालिका बंध is a बंध जारी by a local government, or their agencies.
संभावित issuers of नगरपालिका bonds शामिल राज्य, शहरों, काउंटी, redevelopment एजेंसियों, special-purpose districts, school districts, public utility districts, publicly owned airports and seaports, and any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level.
Municipal bonds may be general obligations of the जारीकर्ता or secured by निर्दिष्ट revenues.
In the United States, interest income received by धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds is प्रायः exempt इससे the संघीय आय कर और इससे the आय tax of the state in which they are issued, although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt.
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is sold, municipal bonds are फ़्री to व्यापार at कोई समय एकबार वे हैं खरीदा by the निवेशकों.
Professional व्यापारियों regularly व्यापार और retrade the same bonds several times a week.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood, Spencer Davis और muff winwood, और originally performed by the स्पेंसर डेविस समूह.
The basic रिफ of the सोंग थी उधार इससे the होमर बैंको सोंग `` ( ai n't कि ) a लॉट of Love '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the पतझड़ of 1966 और a US # 7.
The सोंग is क्रमित # 247 on the रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
The version issued in the UK ( और संभवतः सबसे of यूरोपीय ) is अलग इससे कि जारी in the us on the संयुक्त कलाकारों label, being slower, and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single.
( The US version has more प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त on reissue CDs, even those coming from Europe. )
The single features the sound of the हैमंड b-3 अंग.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of information सम्बन्धित to films, टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, और वीडियो games.
This includes actors, production crew personnel, and fictional characters featured in ये तीन विज़ुअल entertainment मीडिया.
It is one of the most लोकप्रिय ऑनलाइन entertainment गंतव्यों, साथ over 100 लाख unique users each month and a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb थी शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 17, 1990, and in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, IMDb had 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( शामिल एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities in its database, as well as 43 million registered users.
the जालस्थल रै an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre Channel Host Bus एडाप्टर ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
scsi मेजबान बस Adapter ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware, a host controller, मेजबान एडाप्टर, or मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a मेजबान प्रणाली ( the कंप्यूटर ) to other network and storage devices.
The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting scsi, fibre चैनल and eSATA devices.
however, डिवाइस लिये connecting to IDE, Ethernet, FireWire, USB and other systems may also be called host adapters.
Recently, the आगमन of iscsi और fibre चैनल over ईथरनेट रै brought about Ethernet HBAs, which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines.
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged संजाल adapters ( cnas ).
cashmere Scarves
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters लिये बिक्री.
Cashmere wool, प्रायः बस ज्ञात as cashmere, is a रेशा प्राप्त from Cashmere goats and other types of goat.
The word cashmere गर्भाशयी इससे an old spelling of Kashmir.
Cashmere is fine in texture, strong, light, और नरम.
garments बना इससे it provide excellent insulation.
In the United States, under the U.S. Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, as amended, ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), राज्य कि a ऊन or वस्त्र उत्पाद may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool product is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat मछली उत्पादित by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool उत्पाद करता नहीं exceed 19 माइक्रोन ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent ( by वज़न ) of cashmere मछली साथ औसत diameters कि exceed 30 microns.
The average fiber diameter may be विषय to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता around the औसत कि shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the United States, with स्टोर्स स्तिथ throughout the पूर्वी seaboard, in the मिडवेस्ट, on the वेस्ट coast और in the दक्षिणपश्चिम.
The company थी संस्थापित in 1975 और is आधारित in woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced that it had दायर लिये दिवालियापन as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
According to Furniture आज the कम्पनी थी क्रमांक 48 among फर्नीचर रिटेलर with US $ 114 million in sales for the year ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently उभरा इससे अध्याय 11 अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of its major supplier, the Haining Mengnu Group.
Egg roll is a term प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक अलग foods around the world.
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China, अनेक chinese-speaking regions of एशिया, और चाइनीज अप्रवासी समुदायों around the संसार.
Egg रोल्स as referred to in China.
In Guangdong and Hong काँग, अंडा फेंकें प्रायः refers to biscuit roll.
This is a प्रकार of बिस्किट.
The ingredient शामिल अंडा, आटा और शुगर.
Egg roll also is a dish in कैण्टन और हांग काँग, इस is प्रायः made with vegetable.
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast और हैं नहीं as commonly consumed in the north and western parts of China.
In अमरीकी चाइनीज भोजन, an अंडा फेंकें is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, pork or झींगा, गोभी, गाजर, टमाटर, सेम sprouts और अन्य vegetables, and then deep fried.
This variety of the egg roll is very common and लोकप्रिय, आरपार भी क्षेत्रीय किस्में of American Chinese food, and is often included as part of a `` combination platter ''.
In Montreal, Canada, open-ended eggrolls हैं a jewish-chinese संलयन dish.
They can be either kosher certified or merely kosher style.
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical and emotional तनाव caused इससे an चोट ( देखिए भी पीड़ा and suffering ).
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches, temporary and permanent सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप, संभावित shortening of life, depression or scarring.
When filing a मुकदमा as a परिणाम of an चोट, it is आम लिये someone to seek money both in compensation for actual money that is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's claim, or, alternatively, it is an तत्व of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति कि allows रिकवरी लिये the दिमागी anguish and/or शारीरिक पीड़ा endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations, arbitration ( both of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or गैर litigated दावा ) as खूब as in routine insurance settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by वकील प्रायः उपस्थित मांगे to insurers to settle for money.
These माँग लिये bodily चोट मुआवजे monies प्रायः set out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings.
Demands are प्रायः लिखा summaries of a claimant 's medical care and the facts which resulted in the injury.
Sample of a Medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी stampIn
the United States and Canada, a medallion signature गारंटी is a खास signature guarantee for the transfer of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the signature is genuine and the वित्तीय संस्था स्वीकृत देयता लिये any forgery.
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized हस्तांतरण और संभावित निवेशकों losses.
They also limit the liability of the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट जो स्वीकृत the certificates.
Different institutions have different policies as to what type of पहचान वे आवश्यकता to provide the गारंटी और whether वे charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ).
Most institutions will नहीं गारंटी a हस्ताक्षर of किसी जो has not already been their customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public, in the sense that a `` signature guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is authentic, and an acknowledgment is a प्रमाणन by a नोटरी पब्लिक attesting कि the signer हस्ताक्षरित a document voluntarily.
Some banks may no longer provide इस सेवा, however, अनेक स्टिल do as well as other financial institutions such as a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions.
At their sole discretion, ये संस्थानों may स्टिल मनाही to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees.
When US citizens are abroad, some वित्तीय संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals, in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric रेल streetcars stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल Island, Los Angeles County, California, March 1956
The General मोटर्स स्ट्रीटकार षड्यंत्र ( भी ज्ञात as the ग्रेट अमरीकी स्ट्रीटकार कांड ) refers to दोषारोपण और convictions in संबंध to a कार्यक्रम by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, mack ट्रक, और the संघीय अभियान्त्रिकी corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 शहरों सहित बाल्टीमोर, Newark, Los Angeles, New York City, Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation.
Several of the companies involved were convicted in 1949 of षड्यंत्र to monopolize interstate commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies.
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby, who first drew attention to the program in 1946, and then Bradford C. Snell, an anti-trust attorney लिये the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट जिनकी विवादास्पद 1974 गवाही to a सीनेट पूछताछ brought the समस्या to नेशनल awareness.
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate विनाश of streetcars थी भाग of a larger strategy to push the United States into automobile dependency.
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit प्रणाली, सहित the ग्रेट अवसाद, the पब्लिक यूटिलिटी पकड़कर कम्पनी अधिनियम of 1935, मजदूर अशांति, मार्केट शक्तियां, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others fell into simplistic conspiracy theory thinking, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` clearly, gm waged a युद्ध on इलेक्ट्रिक कर्षण.
It was indeed an all out assault, but by no अर्थात् the सिंगल कारण लिये the विफलता of rapid transit.
Also, it is बस as साफ कि क्रियाएँ और inactions by सरकारी contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of u.S. शहरों have surviving प्रभावी rail-based शहरी हस्तांतरण प्रणालियों आधारित on streetcars or trams, सहित Newark, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Pittsburgh, and Boston ; others are re-introducing them.
The story has been explored अनेक टाइम्स in छपाई, फिल्मी और अन्य मीडिया, notably in जो framed Roger Rabbit, Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia.
Corwin House, Salem, मैसाचुसेट्स, निर्मित ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the colonial period of the United States, including First Period English ( late-medieval ), फ्रेंच औपनिवेशिक, स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक, डच औपनिवेशिक और जॉर्जियाई.
ये शैलियाँ हैं संबद्ध साथ the घरों, churches and government buildings of the period from about 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big बैंड era # 1 hit अंकित by अमरीकी bandleader Glenn Miller.
it अव्वल the चार्ट in 1940 in the U.S. and one year later was featured in the movie Sun Valley Serenade.
In 1999, National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn मिलर रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए bluebird on the npr 100, the सूची of `` the 100 सबसे important American musical works of the 20th century ''.
वरुण logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it रै अनुमत लोगों to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world.
Along with its सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट, शुक्र, वरुण offers a unique approach to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध, जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely संचालित crawler.
A gramophone record, commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ), vinyl record ( in reference to vinyl, the material most commonly used after about 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a रिकार्ड '', is an एनालॉग ध्वनि भंडार मीडियम consisting of a चपटा डिस्क साथ an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove प्रायः starts निकट the periphery और ends near the center of the disc.
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ), their reproductive सटीकता, or `` वफ़ादारी `` ( `` ऊँची वफ़ादारी '', `` orthophonic '', `` full-range '', इत्यादि. ), और the क्रमांक of चैनल्स of ऑडियो provided ( `` मोनो ``, `` स्टीरियो ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th century, replacing the फोनोग्राफ बेलन, साथ which it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the late 1980s, digital मीडिया था gained a larger मार्केट share, और the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured और बेची in the 21st century.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 लाख इकाई shipped, the most in any year since 1998 and the format has continued to slowly regain popularity.
They are especially used by djs और audiophiles लिये अनेक प्रकार of music.
As of 2013, vinyl records continue to be प्रयुक्त for distribution.
Grassland in the सांता रोजा पठार, California.
Grassland in the antelope Valley, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the Flint पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern कान्सास.
a घासभूमि in the Philippines.
An Inner Mongolian घासभूमि in the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses ( पोएसी ), however sedge ( cyperaceae ) और फटाफट ( juncaceae ) families can also be found.
Grasslands occur naturally on सब महाद्वीपों मगर अंटार्कटिक.
In temperate latitudes, such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in North America, देशी grasslands हैं वर्चस्व by बारहमासी गुच्छा ग्रास प्रजाति, whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation.
grasslands हैं मिला in most ecoregions of the Earth.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the शीतोष्ण grasslands, savannas, और shrublands बायोम ( ' ecosystem ' ), which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis, also called हिना पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering संयंत्र, the एकमात्र प्रजाति in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae.
The English नाम `` हिना '' आता इससे the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / pronounced ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also used for डाई preparations निकला इससे the संयंत्र, और लिये the art of temporary tattooing based on those dyes.
Henna has been used चूंकि प्राचीनता to डाई स्किन, बाल, और fingernails, as खूब as fabrics including Silk, wool and leather.
additionally, the नाम is misused लिये अन्य स्किन और बाल dyes, such as black henna or neutral henna, which are not derived from the plant.
A thin film is a layer of material ranging from भिन्नों of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings are the main अनुप्रयोग लाभकारी इससे thin-film निर्माण.
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror, which typically has a thin metal coating on the वापस of a चादर of कांच to रूप a परावर्तक interface.
The process of silvering was once commonly प्रयुक्त to उपज mirrors.
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer मोटा ) is प्रयुक्त to उपज two-way mirrors.
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or AR, coatings ) are typically उन्नत जब the thin-film कोटिंग consists of अनेक परतों having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of alternating thin films of different materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the घटना of क्वांटम कारावास by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is being done with ferromagnetic और ferroelectric पतला films for use as computer memory.
It is also होने लागू to दवाएँ, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to produce thin-film बैटरी.
Thin films हैं भी प्रयुक्त in dye-sensitized solar cells.
सिरेमिक पतला films are in wide use.
The relatively high hardness and inertness of सिरेमिक सामग्री मेक इस प्रकार of पतला कोटिंग of ब्याज लिये सुरक्षा of substrate materials against corrosion, oxidation and wear.
In particular, the use of such coatings on कटिंग टूल्स can extend the जीवन of ये वस्तुएं by several orders of magnitude.
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film अकार्बनिक ऑक्साइड सामग्री, पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent आक्साइड, which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a सैन्य विज्ञान fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो खेल विकसित by एपिक खेल and published by Microsoft Game Studios.
It was initially released as an विशेष शीर्षक लिये the एक्सबॉक्स 360 in नवम्बर 2005 in उत्तर अमेरिका, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, और सबसे of Europe and included a `` Limited Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the खेल थी विकसित in संयोजन साथ लोगों can मक्खी और released a साल बाद, featuring नई सामग्री सहित additional campaign levels, a new multiplayer game mode, and Games for Windows Live functionality.
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as वे wield a हताश, last-ditch attempt to save the remaining human inhabitants of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde.
The player assumes the भूमिका of मार्कस fenix ( लकिन can भी खेल as डोमिनिक सैंटियागो ), a पूर्व prisoner and war-hardened soldier.
The game is based on the use of cover and रणनीतिक आग लिये the खिलाड़ी to अग्रिम through the scenarios ; a दूसरी खिलाड़ी can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
The खेल भी सुविधाएँ अनेक ऑनलाइन multiplayer game modes for up to eight players.
Gears of War sold over three लाख नक़ल in बस टेन सप्ताह और थी the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th best selling एक्सबॉक्स 360 खेल of सब समय.
The game has since sold over पाँच लाख नक़ल by सितंबर 2008.
The game was well received by critics, who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals, और it जीती अनेक `` खेल of the साल '' awards in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War मताधिकार, सहित the 2008 sequel गियर्स of युद्ध 2 और इसके follow-up, Gears of War 3, which was released on September 20, 2011, after having initially been set to have been released on April 5, 2011, the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.
Adaptations to books, कॉमिक्स, as खूब as a विशेषता फिल्मी are to be expected.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel लिखा by बेट्टी स्मिथ.
The story focuses on an irish-american परिवार in williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York City.
The novel is set in the first and second दशकों of the 20th सदी.
The book was an immense कामयाबी.
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven, native to China और ताईवान, अभी माना हृदयरोग, और आम in the vacant lots of New York City.
World map साथ the intertropical zone highlighted in red.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where all twelve months have mean temperatures ऊपर 18 °c ( 64 °F ).
The tropics is a region of the धरती surrounding the Equator.
It is limited in latitude by the tropic of कर्कट in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध at approximately N and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth.
The tropics are also referred to as the तीव्र मण्डल और the torrid मण्डल ( देखिए भौगोलिक zone ).
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth जहाँ the सूर्य पहुँच a पाइंट सीधे ओवरहेड at तनिक एकबार during the solar year.
The tropics are distinguished from the other climatic and biomatic regions of Earth, the मध्य latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions on either side of the equatorial zone.
For the INXS song, see कया तुम need ( सोंग ).
`` What You need '' is an एपीसोड of the American television anthology series The Twilight Zone.
It is based on the short story of the same name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry kuttner और C. L. मूर ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest थिएटर जटिल in the संयुक्त राज्य, दूसरी तभी to New York City 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the early 1920s, the theaters were subsequently बंद bas, लकिन यहूद revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown revitalization in Cleveland, और थी पुकारा `` एक of the शीर्ष टेन सफलताओं in Cleveland history. ''
The driver and passenger front airbags, after having महरूम तैनात, in a अंग्रेजों Peugeot 306 car.
An एयरबैग is a गाडी safety device.
It is an occupant संयम प्रणाली consisting of a लचीली कपड़ा लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a क्रैश और provide सुरक्षा to उनके लाशें जब वे स्ट्राइक interior objects such as the steering wheel or a window.
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions, and sensors may deploy one or अधिक airbags in an प्रभाव मण्डल at परिवर्तनीय दरों आधारित on the प्रकार, कोण और गंभीरता of प्रभाव ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes.
Airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt.
Most designs are inflated through pyrotechnic means और can तभी be संचालित once.
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of compressed air cylinders that are triggered in the इवेंट of a पक्ष प्रभाव vehicle impact.
The first commercial designs यहूद introduced in यात्री ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान the 1970s with limited success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a driver airbag, और a सामने यात्री एयरबैग as खूब on कुछ गाड़ियाँ ; और अनेक आधुनिक वाहनों अभी शामिल चार or more units.
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt संगठन to रपट वित्तीय सूचना to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United States.
They are used to report income, calculate taxes to be paid to the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य, और ज़ाहिर अन्य सूचना as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ).
There are over 800 विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म और schedules.
the best-known of ये is Form 1040 used by individuals.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, ड्राइवर 's पंक्तियां हैं जारी by प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत state ( including Washington, D.C. and territories ), rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism.
ड्राइवर हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a अनुज्ञा इससे their state of residence and all states recognize each other 's licenses for temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements.
A राज्य may भी बर्खास्तगी an व्यक्तिगत 's driving privilege within its borders for traffic violations.
Many राज्य share a आम प्रणाली of अनुज्ञा वर्ग, साथ कुछ अपवाद, और वाणिज्यिक अनुज्ञा classes are standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383.
China has been the source of many inventions, including the Four Great Inventions : papermaking, the compass, बारूद, और मुद्रण ( दोनो woodblock और movable type ).
The list नीचे contains these and other inventions.
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, और गणित लागू to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, कृषि, अभियान्त्रिकी, म्यूज़िक theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ), they had उन्नत metallurgic प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित the धमाका भट्टी और cupola furnace, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated economic प्रणाली in चीन दिया जनम to आविष्कारों such as paper money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th सदी led to an सरणी of आविष्कारों ऐसे as the आग तलवार, जमीन मेरा, नवल mine, hand cannon, exploding cannonballs, multistage rocket, and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century कम्पास और क्षमता to steer at ऊँची समुद्र साथ the 1st-century sternpost rudder, premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern Chinese had used the escapement mechanism since the 8th सदी और the अंतहीन power-transmitting कड़ी ड्राइव in the 11th century.
They also made large mechanical कठपुतली थिएटर चलित by waterwheels और carriage पहियों और wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and pengtoushan संस्कृतियों represent the oldest पाषाणकालीन cultures of China and were formed around 7000 BC.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives, stone hoes और हुकुम, the cultivation of बाजरा, राइस और the सोयाबीन, the refinement of sericulture, the भवन of rammed धरती structures साथ लाइम -plastered हाउस floors, the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's व्हील, the सृष्टि of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs, the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the longshan संस्कृति ( c. 3000–c. 2000 bc ) काल, the अनुपस्थिति of longshan-era सिंचाई or high-yield फसलों, पूरा प्रमाण of longshan cultivation of dry-land खाद्यान्न फसलों जिससे gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated, '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube seed drill and heavy moldboard iron plow, China 's agricultural आउटपुट could sustain a much larger जनसांख्यिकी.
For the purposes of this list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts विकसित in चीन, और as ऐसे करता नहीं शामिल foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact, such as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe.
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere और बाद invented separately by the Chinese, such as the odometer and chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or natural discoveries, परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल और कलाकारी innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list.
Gross घरेलू उत्पाद in 2011 us डॉलर प्रति capita, समायोजित लिये महंगाई और purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011, with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ), UK ( orange ), Japan ( red ), China ( red ), and India ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see स्पेलिंग मतभेद ) is the प्रक्रम of अंतरराष्ट्रीय संयोजन arising from the interchange of world views, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple terms, globalization refers to प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources.
Advances in transportation and दूरसंचार अवसंरचना, सहित the वृद्धि of the अंतरजाल, हैं major factors in globalization, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities.
Though several scholars place the origins of globalization in आधुनिक टाइम्स, अन्य ट्रेस इसके इतिहास long पहले the European age of discovery and voyages to the New World.
Some even ट्रेस the origins to the third millennium BCE.
Since the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी, the pace of वैश्वीकरण रै intensified at a rapid rate, especially during the Post Cold War era.
The term वैश्वीकरण रै महरूम in increasing उपयोग चूंकि the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade and ट्रांजेक्शन, पूंजी और निवेश आंदोलनों, माइग्रेशन और गति of लोगों और the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental challenges such as climate change, cross-boundary जल और एयर pollution, and over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization.
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by कारोबार और कार्य संगठन, अर्थशास्त्र, socio-cultural resources, and the natural environment.
The replacements is a 2000 अमरीकी खेल कॉमेडी फिल्मी directed by Howard Deutch.
It stars कियानू रीव्स, जीन hackman, and Brooke Langton.
An American Airlines वायुयान takes बंद इससे dallas/fort Worth International Airport.
This विमानक्षेत्र is the airline 's largest hub.
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic गंतव्यों और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय destinations in 48 countries.
( as of December 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO airport code ), और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम, साथ the एयरलाइन 's hubs, फ़ोकस cities and seasonal destinations marked.
The list also contains गंतव्यों no longer परोसा by the एयरलाइन, जिससे हैं marked as terminated destinations.
It does not include destinations served for American Airlines by its regional affiliates अमरीकी त्रिभुज एयरलाइंस, कार्यपालिका एयरलाइंस, and AmericanConnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known version of which was sung by Harry belafonte और an वैकल्पिक संस्करण interspersed साथ another jamaican folksong, Hill and Gully Rider, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento प्रभाव, `` day-o ( the banana Boat Song ) '' is widely known as an example of calypso music.
It is a work song, from the point of view of dock workers working the night शिफ़्ट लदान केले onto जहाजों.
Daylight has आइये, the शिफ़्ट is over और वे want उनके work to be counted up so that they can go home.
संसार युद्ध i ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
it थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the Allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
एक of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त line that changed little until 1917.
on the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
इटली और बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
The war ended in victory लिये the allies.
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the युद्ध, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller states.
The लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Nurse Jackie is an American series that premiered on June 8, 2009, on showtime, फिल्म सेंट्रल और the फिल्म संजाल.
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton, an emergency department nurse at सब संतो ' हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क City.
For Jackie, `` प्रत्येक दिन is a ऊँची तार अधिनियम of juggling patients, doctors, fellow nurses and her own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the kardashians ( प्रायः referred to बस as the kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न series that premiered on October 14, 2007, on E !.
It follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner परिवार, सहित बहनों कोर्टनी, किम, and Khloé Kardashian.
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs कोर्टनी और किम लो नई यॉर्क, Khloé & Lamar, Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming भाग of दक्षिण Asia, Central Asia, and to some extent Western Asia.
It has a population of around 30 लाख inhabiting an क्षेत्रफल of approximately, making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world.
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east, Iran in the west, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, उज़्बेकिस्तान और ताजिकिस्तान in the उत्तर, और China in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has been an ancient focal point of the रेशा सड़क और इंसान माइग्रेशन.
Archaeologists have found evidence of human habitation इससे as दूर वापस as the मध्य Paleolithic.
Urban civilization may have begun in the क्षेत्रफल as जल्दी as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
Sitting at an महत्वपूर्ण geostrategic स्थान कि connects the मध्य ईस्ट संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया and the Indian subcontinent, the land has been home to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces.
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians, Kushans, hephthalites, saffarids, ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, timurids, मुगलों, Durranis, and others have risen to form major empires.
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709, when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah दुर्रानी 's वृद्धि to शक्ति in 1747.
In the late 19th century, अफगानिस्तान became a बफ़र राज्य in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires.
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War, King Amanullah began a European style modernization of the country but थी रोका by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947, the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading प्रभाव in अफगानिस्तान, जिससे led to a खूनी युद्ध between the us-backed मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां और the soviet-backed अफगान सरकारी in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This was followed by the 1990s सिविल युद्ध, the वृद्धि and fall of the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain सुरक्षा in अफगानिस्तान और assist the करज़ई प्रशासन.
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's most dangerous countries, सहित the largest निर्माता of शरणार्थियों and asylum seekers.
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan, terrorist groups such as the हक्कानी संजाल और hezbi islami हैं actively शामिल in a देशभर तालिबान -led उग्रवाद, which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks.
According to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the insurgents यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight remaining स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise, and दोनो पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध.
The Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, and mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, banks, transportation और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods बेची ( cogs ) refer to the inventory लागत of those goods a business has sold during a particular period.
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of अनेक formulas, सहित विशिष्ट पहचान, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
Costs include all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other लागत incurred in bringing the inventories to उनके present location and condition.
Costs of goods made by the business include सामग्री, मजदूर, और allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as costs of inventory जबतक the inventory is बेची or written down in value.
Freak Lunchbox कैंडी स्टोर in Halifax, Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a मीठी दूकान in the संयुक्त किंगडम, a कैंडी स्टोर in the उत्तर America, or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children.
Most confectionery stores are filled with an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than a पंसारी or convenience स्टोर could accommodate.
वे प्रायः प्रस्ताव a चयन of old fashioned treats, and sweets from different countries.
Very often अपरिवर्तित in लेआउट since their inception, confectioneries are known for their warming and nostalgic feel.
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the oldest confectionery स्टोर in England.
The oldest sweet shop in इंग्लैण्ड, in the गाँव of pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '', और it is ज्ञात informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the संयोजन of ओक्लाहोमा territory और भारतीय Territory on November 16, 1907, Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` Okies '', और इसके पूंजी और largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and कृषि, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology.
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the स्वदेश, रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, साथ nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern forests, most of Oklahoma झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s. Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native American ancestry, more than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in ओक्लाहोमा, दूसरी तभी to कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives, a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers, और a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
stacked और खड़ा car tires
A tire ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance.
Most टायर, ऐसे as those लिये ऑटोमोबाइल और साइकिल, provide traction between the vehicle and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock.
The materials of modern pneumatic tires are synthetic rubber, natural rubber, fabric and तार, साथ साथ कार्बन ब्लैक और अन्य रासायनिक compounds.
They consist of a tread और a body.
The tread provides traction जबकि the देह provides containment for a quantity of compressed air.
Before rubber was developed, the first versions of tires were simply bands of metal that fitted around लकड़ी पहियों to prevent पहनें और आंसू.
Early rubber tires were ठोस ( नहीं न्यूमेटिक ).
Today, the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of वाहनों, सहित cars, bicycles, motorcycles, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
Metal tires are still used on इंजनों और railcars, और ठोस रबर ( or other polymer ) tires are still used in various non-automotive applications, such as some casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an American doctor who निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in अमरीकी patriot संगठन in बोस्टन in जल्दी दिनों of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, आखिरकार सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress.
Warren enlisted Paul Revere और विलियम dawes on अप्रैल 18, 1775, to छोड़ बोस्टन और स्प्रेड the सचेतक कि the अंग्रेजों गैरीसन in बोस्टन was setting out to raid the town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams.
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of Lexington and concord, जिससे हैं commonly माना to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
Warren had been commissioned a Major General in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly पहले the जून 17, 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his रैंक, वारेन परोसा in the बैटल as a निजी सिपाही, और थी killed in combat when British troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill.
His death, immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting, The Death of सामान्य वारेन at the बैटल of बंकर 's हिल, जून 17, 1775, जस्ती the rebel forces, and he has been memorialized in many place names in the United States.
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular जंजीरों of the सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर Quinacridone on Graphite.
An organic semiconductor is an organic material with semiconductor गुण, कि is, साथ an विद्युत चालकता between कि of insulators and that of metals.
सिंगल अणुओं, short chain ( oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic aromatic यौगिकों pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
Polymeric organic semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ), बहु ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There are two प्रमुख अतिव्यापी वर्ग of organic semiconductors.
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers निकला इससे polyacetylene.
Linear backbone organic semiconductors शामिल polyacetylene itself and its derivatives polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer complexes often exhibit समान conduction mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors.
Such mechanisms arise from the presence of hole and electron conduction परतों अलग by a band gap.
While such classic mechanisms are महत्वपूर्ण locally, as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, localized states, mobility gaps, and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction, particularly in polyacetylenes.
Like inorganic semiconductors, सशुल्क semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( ormecon ) और हैं भी ज्ञात as organic metals.
Typical current carriers in organic semiconductors हैं छेद और electrons in π-bonds.
लगभग सब सशुल्क solids are insulators.
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems, electrons can मूव via π-electron बादल overlaps, विशेषकर by hopping, tunnelling and related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine नमक crystals हैं उदाहरण of इस प्रकार of सशुल्क semiconductor.
Mainly due to low mobility, even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer देवालय.
Such unpaired electrons can फलन as वर्तमान वाहक.
This type of semiconductor is also obtained by pairing an electron donor molecule with an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor अणु.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of द्रव by इंसान महिलाओं इससे the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the मादा urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are माना to be अलग phenomena in कुछ research publications.
The exact source and nature of the द्रव continue to be a टॉपिक of बहस among medical professionals, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the senior women 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ), the खेल 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1991.
Japan won the 2011 tournament in a दंड गोलीबारी.
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about तीन सप्ताह ; – इस phase is प्रायः called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता in महिलाओं 's फ़ुटबॉल और is निभाई amongst महिलाओं 's नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the member states of FIFA, the sport 's global governing body.
The first Women 's World Cup tournament, named the Women 's World Championship, was held in 1991, sixty-one सालो बाद the मेन 's पहला फीफा संसार कप टूर्नामेंट in 1930.
The six World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by four different national teams.
The next संसार कप होगा be hosted by Canada in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter डीन मायर्स, पहला प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य by हार्पर & Row on June 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew बाइबल by जोसेफ athias, अभी at बेथ Hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation of various यहूदी और यूनानी वाक्यांश प्रयुक्त in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament.
It has diverse meanings, ranging from a सामान्य इंसान होने to a prophesied eternal, divine ruler.
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears एक सौ and seven times in the Hebrew Bible.
This is the most common Hebrew निर्माण लिये the एकवचन लकिन is प्रयुक्त ज़्यादातर in ezekiel ( 93 टाइम्स ) और 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty two मामले the phrase appears in इंटरमीडिएट plural form `` sons of men '', i.e. human beings.
As generally interpreted by यहूदियों, it denotes humankind generally.
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament, `` the बेटे of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
The use of the definite आलेख in `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा, और पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ, no रिकॉर्ड of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist.
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the Son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is unrelated to यहूदी बाइबल usages.
In Christian उपयोग, नापसंद the बेटे of परमेश्वर शीर्षक, जिससे रै महरूम an essential element of Christian creeds since the Apostolic age, the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity.
the निर्वचन of the उपयोग of `` the बेटे of man '' in the New Testament has remained challenging and after 150 years of debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars.
Master of foxhounds leads the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham किला in Devon, England, with the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, and sometimes हत्या of a फॉक्स, traditionally a रेड फॉक्स, by प्रशिक्षित foxhounds or अन्य सैंट hounds, and a group of unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds, who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the संयुक्त किंगडम in the 16th सदी, लकिन is practised सब over the संसार, सहित in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, Canada, France, Ireland, Italy and the United States.
In Australia, the term also refers to the शिकार of foxes साथ firearms समान to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g., हिरण शिकार साथ धनुष और तीर ) ; in ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, `` शिकार '' बगैर qualification implies fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling, stag hunting, mink hunting, drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here.
The sport is विवादास्पद, विशेषकर in the uk, जहाँ it थी बैन in स्कॉटलैंड in 2002, और in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स in November 2004 ( law enforced from February 2005 ), though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of फॉक्स शिकार दृश्य it as an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of ग्रामीण संस्कृति and useful for reasons of conservation and pest control, while opponents argue that it is cruel and unnecessary.
Tobacco advertising is the विज्ञापन of तम्बाकू उत्पाद or उपयोग ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान ) by the तम्बाकू industry through a variety of media including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
It is now one of the most highly regulated फ़ॉर्म of marketing.
Some or all forms of तम्बाकू विज्ञापन are banned in many countries.
Bally Technologies, Inc. is a manufacturer of slot मशीने और अन्य गेमिंग प्रौद्योगिकी based in Las Vegas, Nevada.
The company was founded in 1968 as उन्नत पेटेंट Technology.
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired, in 1996, बल्ली गेमिंग अंतरराष्ट्रीय, a पूर्व प्रभाग of बल्ली Manufacturing.
in 2006, the संपूर्ण company adopted the Bally name, a trademark that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation.
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; यहाँ, दांते is खोया in canto 1 of the Inferno.
inferno ( इतालवी लिये `` Hell `` ) is the first part of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy.
It is followed by purgatorio and Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the यात्रा of Dante through Hell, guided by the Roman poet Virgil.
in the कविता, Hell is depicted as nine circles of suffering located within the Earth.
Allegorically, the दैवी कॉमेडी represents the यात्रा of the आत्मा towards God, with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin.
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and produced by the अंग्रेजों कम्पनी diageo.
The Smirnoff brand began with a वोदका डिस्टिलरी संस्थापित in मास्को by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is now वितरित in 130 देशों.
It is produced in several countries including India, आयरलैंड, इटली, the संयुक्त किंगडम और the संयुक्त States.
स्मरनॉफ उत्पाद शामिल वोदका, flavoured vodka, and malt beverages.
In March 2006, Diageo North अमेरिका claimed कि स्मरनॉफ वोदका थी the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world.
Big Brown ( foaled April 10, 2005 in Kentucky ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 केंटकी डर्बी और 2008 preakness stakes.
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's Monticule Farms in lexington, केंटकी, he जीती उसके पहला पाँच race starts.
He was sired by Grade III winner Boundary, a son of North American Champion sire Danzig, a son of उत्तरी नर्तकी.
Big Brown 's dam was Mien, also a पोती of उत्तरी नर्तकी through her sire, Nureyev.
The serenity दुआ is the आम नाम लिये an originally untitled prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been adopted by alcoholics बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step programs.
The best-known form is : God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The courage to बदलें the things I can,
And wisdom to जान the अंतर.
The Declaration and Resolves of the First महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस ( भी ज्ञात as the घोषणा of औपनिवेशिक अधिकारों, or the घोषणा of अधिकारों ), थी a बयान अपनाया by the First Continental Congress on October 14, 1774, in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament.
The Declaration outlined औपनिवेशिक आपत्ति to the असहनीय अधिनियमों, सूचीबद्ध a colonial bill of rights, and provided a detailed list of grievances.
It was समान to the घोषणा of अधिकारों और Grievances, passed by the Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier.
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's योजनाएँ : to डालें into a बहिष्कार of अंग्रेजों व्यापार ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक उनके grievances यहूद redressed, to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America, and to send a petition to the King.
Pulse pressure is the दबाव कि is लगा जब अहसास the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmhg ), the दबाव अंतर between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse, which is the pulse pressure.
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmHg ), pulse pressure is 40.
The Hills is a reality television श्रेणी जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी इससे may 31, 2006 until July 13, 2010.
The show uses a reality television format, following the personal lives of several young adults living in Los Angeles, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लकिन tends towards a कथा स्वरूप अधिक commonly मिला in scripted जाति ऐसे as soap operas.
The series originally followed the निजी जीवन of पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार लॉरेन कोनराड और उसके friends ' new lives in Los Angeles.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series and was replaced by another former Laguna Beach star, Kristin cavallari, शुरूआत in the दूसरी हाफ of the fifth season.
The series concluded at the समाप्त of the छठे ऋतु.
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the पिछला 25 सालो, '' stating कि the series was a `` New Classic. ''
AOL TV called it tv 's biggest अपराधी ख़ुशी.
The series premiered in syndication in the पतन of 2009 alongside लगुना बीच : The Real Orange County.
In poker, bad beat is a subjective पद लिये a हाथ in जिससे a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger हाथ and their opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` hits '' and wins.
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players होगा असहमत परिचय whether a particular हाथ थी a ख़राब ताल.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater मछली in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest मछली to be domesticated, and is one of the most commonly kept aquarium fish.
A relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp and the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated संस्करण of a less-colorful कार्प ( carassius auratus ) native to east Asia.
It was first domesticated in China more than a हजार सालो पहले, and several distinct breeds have since been developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size, body shape, fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations of white, पीला, नारंगी, रेड, भूरा, और ब्लैक हैं ज्ञात ).
Uncooked rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually consisting of bacon, onions, mustard and pickles wrapped in thinly sliced बीफ जिससे is then cooked.
In कुछ देशों, the roulade is also known as `` beef olive ''.
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food विद्वानों tend to मानना कि the असली संस्करण थी संभवतः venison or पोर्क, and pork is still popular in some areas.
The beef rouladen as we जान उन्हें आज have become popular over the last century.
The cut is usually topside बीफ or silverside चूंकि इस is the cheaper cut.
The more महंगी संस्करण होता be the round steak, also known as rump steak.
The मांस is काटें into विशाल, thin slices.
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork पेट, कटा प्याज और कटा अचार ( gurken ) जिससे is at times varied by adding minced meat, sausage meat, pine nuts and mustard.
The मिश्रण varies इससे प्रदेश to region.
Rouladen हैं traditionally served for dinner.
Red wine is प्रायः परोसा with this dish.
ठेठ eukaryotic cell.
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is the नियत of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is एक of the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is माना an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रिया.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the देह, सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
Although technically, cellular श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly करता नहीं resemble एक जब it occurs in a living cell.
This अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids and fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप, thereby transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, सहित जैवसंश्लेषण, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
Countries by 2011 जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) according to the CIA World Factbook.
This article शामिल a सूची of देशों in the संसार sorted by उनके सकल घरेलू product ( GDP ), the market value of all final goods and services from a nation in a given year.
The GDP dollar estimates प्रस्तुत यहाँ हैं calculated at market or government official exchange rates.
Several economies which are not माना to be देशों ( संसार, the eu, और कुछ dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the sources.
These economies are not ranked in the charts here, but are सूचीबद्ध जहाँ लागू.
The figures प्रस्तुत यहाँ do नहीं लो into खाता मतभेद in the लागत of जीना in अलग देशों, and the results can vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency.
Such fluctuations may change a country 's रैंकिंग इससे एक साल to the अगला, भी हालांकि वे प्रायः मेक छोटी or no difference to the standard of living of its population.
इसलिए ये आंकड़े should be used with caution.
Some countries/regions may have citizens which हैं on औसत wealthy.
These countries/regions could appear in this list as having a छोटी जीडीपी.
This would be because the country/region listed has a small जनसांख्यिकी, और इसलिए छोटी कुल अर्थव्यवस्था ; the जीडीपी is गणना as the population times the wealth per capita.
comparisons of नेशनल माल हैं भी अक्सर बना on the basis of purchasing power parity ( PPP ), to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries.
( See सूची of देशों by GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but has its own drawbacks ; it does not प्रतिबिंबित the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, और it भी requires अधिक estimation than nominal GDP.
On the whole, PPP per capita figures are अधिक narrowly स्प्रेड than नाममात्र GDP per capita figures.
The first list includes data compiled by the United राष्ट्र आंकडे प्रभाग for 2011.
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Monetary Fund for 2012.
The third सूची shows the संसार बैंको 's ज़्यादातर 2011 estimates, and the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook.
Lapping is a machining प्रक्रम, in जिससे दो सतहों हैं मला साथ with an abrasive between them, by hand movement or by way of a machine.
This can लो two forms.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ), typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( भी ज्ञात as the `` गोद '' or पीस औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़ ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम ऑक्साइड, जौहरियों 's रूज, optician 's rouge, emery, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., in between them.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the अक्खड़ रोल्स परिचय between the two surfaces and removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer सामग्री ऐसे as पिच or a ceramic for the lap, which is `` charged '' with the abrasive.
The गोद is तब used to cut a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which holds it and permits it to स्कोर आरपार और काटें the harder सामग्री.
Taken to a finer limit, this will produce a polished surface such as साथ a पॉलिशिंग cloth on an ऑटोमोबाइल, or a पॉलिशिंग cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel.
Taken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of accurate interferometry और specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग, lensmakers can उपज सतहों कि are flat to better than 30 nanometers.
This is one twentieth of the wavelength of लाइट इससे the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source.
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें साथ अंतर्गत the सही conditions.
( This is not the same as the wringing प्रभाव of जोहानसन ब्लॉक, हालांकि it is similar ).
the पद `` अमेरिका 's टोली '' is a popular nickname in the United States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the National Football League.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, where the narrator opens with the following परिचय : the पद is पहचाना और प्रायः प्रयुक्त by मीडिया आउटलेट, सहित ESPN, Yahoo !, HBO Sports, and Sports Illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 कनाडाई टेलीविज़न series, based on the television film of the same name.
In Canada, the series premiered in French on Télétoon on फ़रवरी 28, 2011, in अंग्रेज़ी on teletoon on कूच 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27, 2011.
The show was created by भैस tv, creators of 6teen and Total Drama.
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ), जो, in the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी, learns कि his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the film, he learns he is समर्थ to have visions और उसके बेहतरीन dost Benny Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures, with occasional help इससे fellow vampires रोरी ( cameron कैनेडी ) और एरिका ( केट टॉड ), जबकि dealing with the troubles of regular high school life.
A second season was confirmed to start production in September 2011 and it first premiered on डिज़्नी चैनल on जून 29, 2012, it premiered on teletoon September 6, 2012.
télétoon प्रारंभ featuring season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28, 2012 and premiered it on January 10, 2013
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, चलित by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a pickup, is a लाइट मोटर गाडी साथ an open-top, पश्च कार्गो क्षेत्रफल ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built, integrated bed, as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some देशों have उनके अपना शर्तें समान to पिकअप, ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया and New Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय, जहाँ वैन और light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law, alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, नियामक, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The अध्यक्ष is further सशक्त to ग्रान्ट संघीय pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The president is frequently described as the सबसे शक्तिशाली व्यक्ति in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year पद, और is एक of तभी दो nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, लिये अधिक than दो सालो of another व्यक्ति 's पद as अध्यक्ष.
In सब, 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
बोतलबंद खनिज water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., well water, distilled water, Mineral water, or spring जल ) packaged in प्लास्टिक or glass water bottles.
Bottled water may be कार्बोनेटेड or not.
Sizes range from small single सेवारत बोतलों to विशाल carboys for water coolers.
Map of the प्रमुख नदियाँ, झीलों, and reservoirs in India
मैप प्रर्दशित नदियाँ और बाढ़ prone areas in India
नदियाँ of इण्डिया खेल an important role in the lives of the Indian people.
The river systems provide सिंचाई, potable जल, सस्ती परिवहन, विद्युत, और the livelihoods for a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains why nearly all the प्रमुख शहरों of इण्डिया हैं स्तिथ by the banks of rivers.
The rivers भी have an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in Hindu mythology and are considered holy by all Hindus in the country.
Seven प्रमुख नदियाँ साथ साथ उनके numerous tributaries make up the river system of India.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the खाड़ी of बंगाल ; however, कुछ of the नदियाँ whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea.
भाग of लद्दाख, उत्तरी भाग of the Aravlli range and the arid parts of the Thar Desert have inland drainage.
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the courses of the rivers of India along with उनके tributaries और शाखाओं in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it.
The shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the centuries is very remarkable.
Many of the channels mentioned in कि सर्वेक्षण have अभी become मुर्दे, dried or even extinct.
All major rivers of India originate इससे एक of the three main watersheds :
The Himalaya और the काराकोरम ranges
Vindhya and Satpura ranges और chotanagpur पठार in central India
Sahyadri or पश्चिमी ghats in पश्चिमी India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for commercial and वित्तीय संबंध among the संसार 's प्रमुख औद्योगिक states in the mid-20th century.
The Bretton वुड्स प्रणाली थी the पहला उदाहरण of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging, 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton वुड्स, नई हैम्पशायर, संयुक्त राज्य, लिये the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated दौरान 1–22 जुलाई 1944, and signed the Agreement on its final day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and procedures to regulate the international monetary system, the planners at Bretton Woods established the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बैंको लिये पुनर्निर्माण और विकास ( ibrd ), जिससे आज is भाग of the World Bank Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 after a sufficient क्रमांक of देशों था ratified the अनुबंध.
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for प्रत्येक देश to अपनाना a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम the एक्सचेंज रेट by tying इसके करेंसी to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold.
This brought the bretton वुड्स प्रणाली to an समाप्त और saw the dollar become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the निक्सन शॉक, निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the United States dollar became a reserve currency used by many states.
At the same समय, अनेक फिक्स्ड currencies ( such as GBP, for example ), also became free floating.
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian कम्पनी कि डिजाइन and manufactures motorcycles.
Headquartered in बोलोग्ना, इटली, डुकाटी is owned by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a person 's क्रेडिट फाइलें, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily based on credit रपट सूचना typically sourced from credit bureaus.
Lenders, such as banks and credit card companies, use credit scores to evaluate the संभावित रिस्क posed by lending money to consumers and to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
Lenders उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine जो qualifies for a loan, at what interest rate, and what credit limits.
Lenders also उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine जिससे ग्राहक are likely to bring in the most revenue.
The use of क्रेडिट or पहचान स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system.
Credit scoring is not limited to बैंको.
Other organizations, such as mobile phone companies, insurance companies, जमींदार, और सरकारी विभाग employ the same techniques.
Credit scoring also has a lot of ओवरलैप साथ आंकड़ा खनन, जिससे उपयोग अनेक similar techniques.
ये तकनीकों combine हज़ारों of factors but they are more or less similar or the same.
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of उनके परिभाषाएं : लिये उदाहरण, to निकालें the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट, the परिभाषा of the दूसरी जरूर be ज्ञात जबकि the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length, mass and time.
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines seven इकाई of माप as a basic set from which all other SI units are derived.
These SI base इकाई और उनके शारीरिक quantities are:
metre for length ( US अंग्रेज़ी : मीटर )
kilogram for द्रव्यमान ( नोट : नहीं the gram )
दूसरी for time
ampere for electric current
केल्विन for temperature
candela for चमकदार intensity
mole for the amount of पदार्थ.
The SI base quantities रूप a नियत of mutually स्वतंत्र आयाम as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in science and technology.
However, in a given realization of ये इकाई वे may well be interdependent, i.e. defined in terms of each other.
The names of SI units are written in lowercase characters ( the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets इस नियम, as 'degree ' is the ईकाई, और 'celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g. metre रै the प्रतीक m ), मगर कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई नामित बाद व्यक्तियों हैं लिखा with an initial capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ).
Many other units, such as the litre ( US English : लीनियर ), हैं formally नहीं भाग of the si, लकिन हैं स्वीकृत लिये use with SI.
स्मारक Canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a part of the National Park सेवा निकट the नगर of ग्रैंड जंक्शन, कोलोराडो.
Spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist rock formations, in some areas.
इस is an क्षेत्रफल of मरुस्थल जमीन high on the Colorado Plateau, with pinion and juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a चौड़ी दायरा of वन्यजीव, सहित red-tailed चीलों और सुनहरी eagles, ravens, jays, desert bighorn sheep, and coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback सवारी, सड़क bicycling, और दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a visitor center on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop.
There हैं भव्य दृश्य इससे trails and the Rim Rock Drive, which winds along the plateau.
Nearby are the Book Cliffs, और the largest flat-topped पहाड़ in the world, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which runs the width of the park, and शामिल चट्टान formations ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता स्मारक, the Kissing Couple, and Coke Ovens.
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ), much of which has been recommended to कॉंग्रेस लिये नामांकन as wilderness.
left to right : यूटिलिटी वर्दी, ब्लू पोशाक वर्दी, Service Uniform, and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the संयुक्त राज्य समुद्री corps serve to फर्क Marines from members of other services.
Among current वर्दी in the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां, the Marines ' uniforms have been in service the longest.
the समुद्री पोशाक ब्लू वर्दी रै, with few changes, been worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century.
North American टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड 419 और 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio.
The largest city served by these area codes is Toledo ( और इसके उपनगरों of हॉलैंड, maumee, northwood, Oregon, Ottawa Hills, Perrysburg, Rossford, Sylvania, Swanton, Waterville, and Whitehouse ).
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada, Ashland, Bellevue, Bluffton, बोलिंग ग्रीन, ब्रायन, bucyrus, celina, क्लाइड, crestline, defiance, delphos, एडिसन, erastus, findlay, fostoria, fremont, galion, kenton, लीमा, मैन्सफील्ड, माउंट gilead, नेपोलियन, नॉरवॉक, ओक हार्बर, Port Clinton, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper Sandusky, Van Wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
Other areas served include the झील erie आइलैंड्स उत्तर of बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन और west of Sandusky.
The main area code, 419, was created as एक of the असली क्षेत्रफल कोड in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the overlay area code 567 was created on January 1, 2002.
Despite the presence of Toledo, the state 's fourth-largest city, 419 was the last of Ohio 's असली चार क्षेत्रफल कोड to have महरूम विभाजित or overlaid.
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born कूच 9, 1936 ) is an American country music singer and musician.
Although he started out singing straight-up देश और पश्चिमी सामग्री in the 1970s, he स्थानांतरित towards a अधिक पॉप -friendly ध्वनि in the 1980s, bringing him further success on not just the country charts, but the pop charts as well.
Among his biggest hits are `` रूम पूरा of गुलाब, '' `` do n't the लड़कियों सब मिलेंगी prettier at closing Time, '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me ``.
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis, कार्ल mcvoy, जिम gilley and Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal Aviation Administration, Gilley is a licensed pilot, who holds an instrument rating with वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges लिये multi-engine airplanes, as खूब as निजी पायलट privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in नई यॉर्क नगर और the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. area on September 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, were crashed into the North and South towers, क्रमशः, of the संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल in नई यॉर्क नगर.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the wtc जटिल, as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding structures.
A third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of रक्षा ), अग्रणी to a आंशिक पतन in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, बाद इसके यात्री tried to overcome the hijackers.
in कुल, लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the हमले, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes.
suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially denied any involvement, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी लिये the हमले.
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited u.S. support of इसराईल, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
the संयुक्त राज्य responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism विधान and expanded law enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture for years, बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. शक्तियां in may 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers और अन्य गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in May 2002, and the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New यॉर्क, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल मेमोरियल in पेन्सिलवेनिया.
After a lengthy delay, the One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New यॉर्क नगर in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama एडवेंचर फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by एंड्रयू stanton, released by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें, and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named marlin ( अल्बर्ट ब्रूक्स ) जो, साथ साथ a राजसी तंग नामित dory ( एलेन degeneres ), खोज लिये his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour.
Along the way, marlin learns to लो risks and let Nemo take care of himself.
It is Pixar 's first film to be released in cinemas in the उत्तरी hemisphere summer.
The film was re-released लिये the पहला समय in 3d on सितंबर 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
a sequel, ढूंढना dory, is फिलहाल in development, set to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best एनिमेटेड विशेषता, और थी मनोनीत in तीन अधिक श्रेणी सहित बेहतरीन असली Screenplay.
It थी the दूसरी highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2003, earning a total of $ 921 million worldwide.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling dvd of सब समय, साथ over 40 लाख नक़ल बेची as of 2006, और was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it.
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time, as well as the 3rd highest-grossing एनिमेटेड film.
In 2008, the American Film Institute named it the दसवाँ महानतम एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना during their Top 10.
The sixth season of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू, भी ज्ञात as अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू : Season of the Superstars, premiered on April 7, 2011 and concluded on June 5, 2011.
auditions यहूद आयोजित in चार शहरों इससे जनवरी 21 through February 5 : Chicago, Houston, New York, and Los Angeles.
This season takes a अलग रूट इससे पास्ट seasons.
The crews must perform to the music of one specific artist प्रत्येक सप्ताह, सहित रिहाना, लील Wayne, and other popular stars.
This season also features खास अतिथि दिखावे by विभिन्न म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित जस्टिन बीबर, the ब्लैक Eyed Peas, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a पूर्व सदस्य of क्वेस्ट क्रू, the विजेता of the तीसरा ऋतु of America 's Best Dance Crew, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the season finale, I aM mE was declared the winner of ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
In the United States, Social Security refers to the Old-Age, survivors, और विकलांगता बीमे ( oasdi ) federal program.
The original Social सुरक्षा अधिनियम ( 1935 ) और the वर्तमान संस्करण of the Act, as amended, encompass several social welfare and social insurance programs.
Social Security is primarily वित्तपोषित through समर्पित payroll कर पुकारा संघीय Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, or the संघीय अनुपूरक चिकित्सा बीमे विश्वास निधि जिससे comprise the Social Security Trust Fund.
Upward redistribution of income is responsible for परिचय 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त सोशल सुरक्षा shortfall over the next 75 years.
According to economist Martin feldstein, the संयुक्त बिता लिये सब सोशल बीमे कार्यक्रम in 2003 गठित 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product.
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or पुरानी आउट of गरीबी.
The Social सुरक्षा प्रशासन is headquartered in Woodlawn, Maryland, just west of Baltimore.
the दारू by volume shown on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a मानक माप of कैसा much दारू ( इथेनॉल ) is contained in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ).
The ABV मानक is प्रयुक्त विश्वव्यापी.
In some countries, alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( बाद the फ्रेंच केमिस्ट जोसेफ लुई gay-lussac ).
लॉरेल खोखला is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau County, New York in the United States.
The population थी 1,952 at the 2010 census.
Charles John Huffam Dickens ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 जून 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic.
He निर्मित कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे यादगार fictional characters and is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented कीर्ति, और by the बीसवीं सदी उसके साहित्यिक genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars.
His novels and short stories continue to be widely लोकप्रिय.
Born in Portsmouth, इंग्लैण्ड, डिकेंस बाएँ school to work in a factory after his father was thrown into debtors ' prison.
Although he had little औपचारिक शिक्षा, उसके जल्दी impoverishment drove him to succeed.
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles, lectured and performed extensively, was an indefatigable अक्षर लेखक, और campaigned vigorously लिये children 's अधिकारों, शिक्षा, और अन्य सोशल reforms.
डिकेंस sprang to कीर्ति साथ the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick Papers.
Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity, famous for his ह्यूमर, व्यंग्य, and keen observation of character and society.
His novels, most published in monthly or weekly किश्तों, pioneered the सीरियल प्रकाशन of narrative fiction, which became the dominant Victorian mode for novel publication.
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction, and he often परिवर्धित उसके प्लाट और अक्षर development based on such feedback.
For example, when his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss Mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा to प्रतिबिंबित उसके disabilities, Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments.
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of Leigh Hunt in the figure of Mr skimpole in bleak हाउस थी likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read episodes.
In the same novel, both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle are drawn from real life – Boythorne इससे वाल्टर जंगली landor और मूनी इससे 'looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
His plots यहूद carefully constructed, और डिकेंस प्रायः wove in तत्व from topical events into his narratives.
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each नई मासिक एपीसोड पढ़ा to उन्हें, खोलने up और प्रेरणादायी a नई class of readers.
Dickens was regarded as the literary colossus of उसके आयु.
His 1843 novella, A क्रिसमस कैरोल, is एक of the सबसे influential works ever written, and it remains popular and continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre.
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its realism, comedy, गद्य स्टाइल, अद्वितीय characterisations, और सोशल आलोचना.
On the other hand Oscar Wilde, Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a कमी of मनोवैज्ञानिक गहराई, ढीला लिखने, और a vein of saccharine sentimentalism.
Martin Luther King and other civil rights leaders in front of the statue of अब्राहम lincoln, अगस्त 28, 1963
The सिविल अधिकारों गति थी a श्रेणी of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक आंदोलनों for equality before the law that peaked in the 1960s.
In many परिस्थितियों it took the रूप of अभियान of सिविल resistance aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance.
In some situations it was accompanied, or followed, by सिविल अशांति and armed rebellion.
The process was long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these movements did not fully achieve उनके लक्ष्य हालांकि, the प्रयत्न of ये आंदोलनों किया सीसे to improvements in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people.
The main aim of the civil rights movement included, and शामिल, ensuring कि the अधिकारों of सब लोगों हैं बराबर protected by the law, including the rights of minorities.
Civil rights आंदोलनों ranging इससे the वैश्विक lgbt अधिकारों गति to the वैश्विक Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue.
The 2010 फीफा संसार कप थी the 19th फीफा संसार Cup, the world championship for men 's national association football teams.
It took place in South Africa from 11 जून to 11 जुलाई 2010.
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय फ़ुटबॉल संघ, फीफा, चयनित दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over मिश्र और मोरक्को to become the first African nation to host the finals.
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country, with the final played at the सॉकर नगर स्टेडियम in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's largest नगर, जोहान्सबर्ग.
thirty-two टीमों यहूद चयनित लिये भागीदारी via a worldwide qualification tournament that began in August 2007.
In the first round of the tournament finals, the टीमों competed in round-robin समूह of चार टीमों लिये अंक, साथ the top two teams in each group proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the नॉकआउट स्टेज, जहाँ तीन rounds of खेल decided जिससे teams would participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the यूरोपीय champions, पराजित third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 बाद अतिरिक्त समय, साथ आन्द्रेस Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world title, becoming the eighth nation to win the tournament, and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent.
Host nation South Africa, 2006 world champions Italy and 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस यहूद सब eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार of the tournament.
It was the first time that the होस्ट यहूद eliminated in the first round.
New जीलैंड साथ उनके तीन draws यहूद the तभी अपराजित टोली in the tournament, but were also eliminated in the first round.
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches in विभिन्न आकार और configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the लेट McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972.
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide कीर्ति as एक of the संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स, लिये उसके subsequent सोलो करियर, and for his political activism and pacifism.
He was shot by चिह्नित दाउद chapman at the प्रवेश of the भवन where he lived, The Dakota, in New York City on 8 December 1980.
Lennon था बस लौटे इससे रिकार्ड संयंत्र स्टुडियो with his wife, Yoko Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at st. luke's-roosevelt हॉस्पिटल बीच, जहाँ it थी stated that nobody could have lived for more than a few minutes after sustaining such injuries.
Shortly after local न्यूज स्टेशन reported लेनन 's death, crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale, New York ; the राख यहूद दिए to ओनो, जो chose नहीं to थाम a अंत्येष्टि लिये him.
The first report of Lennon 's death to a U.S. national दर्शक थी घोषित by हावर्ड cosell, on एबीसी 's Monday Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest नगर and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,214,932.
The city is named after Orléans, a city located on the Loire River in Centre, France, and is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और इसके सालाना जश्न और त्यौहार, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in अमेरिका.
New ऑरलियन्स is स्तिथ in southeastern Louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The city and ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the ईस्ट, plaquemines to the दक्षिण और जेफरसन to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of which is included in the city हद, झूठ to the उत्तर और झील borgne झूठ to the ईस्ट.
The संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, पूर्व vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जीती the election over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन, the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of हिंसा कि शामिल the हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग, jr., और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest third पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व Alabama Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because वालेस 's अभियान opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त school segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last election in which New York had the सबसे मत in the चुनावी कॉलेज ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी votes and has remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest चुनाव जहाँ a अध्यक्षीय ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state.
करक ( ; भी ज्ञात as garak, garrak, और gorg ) is a गाँव in Gamasiyab Rural District, in the Central District of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American musician and artist, best known as the lead singer, guitarist and प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in एबरडीन, वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the Seattle music scene, having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells जैसे टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the कामयाबी of nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message and कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
he challenged निर्वाण 's audience with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ).
दौरान the पिछला सालो of उसके जीवन, Cobain struggled with heroin addiction, illness and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, कोबेन थी मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in सिएटल, the शिकार of कया was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
the हालातों of उसके मौत at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since their debut, Nirvana, साथ कोबेन as a songwriter, रै बेची over 25 लाख albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and maintenance of machinery.
More generally in the English speaking world, early millwrights were specialist बढ़ई जो erected मशीने प्रयुक्त in कृषि, खाना प्रसंस्करण and processing lumber and paper.
In the early part of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति, उनके कौशल यहूद दबाया into सेवा भवन the earliest powered textile mills.
Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled ट्रेड in अनुक्रम to सफलतापूर्वक fabricate औद्योगिक मशीनरी or to इकट्ठे मशीने from pre-fabricated parts.
the आधुनिक millwright must also be able to read blueprints and other schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the us, हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors.
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely based on the फिलिप K. लंड छोटी स्टोरी, `` समायोजन टोली ``.
The film was written and निर्देशित by जार्ज nolfi और सितारों Matt Damon and Emily Blunt.
The cast also includes Anthony Mackie, John slattery, माइकल केली, और टेरेंस Stamp.
The score was composed by Thomas न्युमैन, साथ दो गीतों by रिचर्ड ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's उज्जवल '' लिये the खोलने sequence ; `` Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ).
Sodium azide is the inorganic यौगिक साथ the सूत्र NaN3.
This colorless salt is the gas-forming घटक in अनेक car airbag systems.
It is used for the तैयारी of अन्य azide यौगिकों.
It is an ionic substance, is highly घुलनशील in जल, और is very acutely toxic.
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the primary arc.
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the bottom marks the केन्द्र of the रेनबो वृत्त ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by प्रतिबिंब of लाइट in जल droplets in the धरती 's माहौल, resulting in a वर्णक्रम of light appearing in the sky.
it takes the रूप of a multicoloured arc.
Rainbows caused by धूप सदा appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun.
In a `` प्राथमिक रेनबो '', the चाप shows red on the outer part and violet on the inner side.
This rainbow is caused by light होने refracted जबकि प्रवेश a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, and has the order of its रंग reversed, रेड facing toward the अन्य एक, in दोनो rainbows.
This दूसरी रेनबो is caused by light reflecting twice inside water droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the tory पार्टी or the tories, is a centre-right राजनैतिक party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism.
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom, being the largest single party in the House of Commons with 303 MPs, the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors, and the largest अंग्रेजों पार्टी in the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट साथ 25 meps.
It governs in coalition with the Liberal Democrats, with party leader दाउद cameron as प्रधान Minister.
the रूढ़िवादी पार्टी थी संस्थापित in 1834, और was one of two dominant parties in the 19th century, along with the Liberal Party.
It changed its name to the Conservative और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी in 1912 बाद विलय साथ the उदार यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी, हालांकि कि नाम is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party.
In the 1920s, the Liberal vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals.
Conservative प्रधान मंत्रियों led सरकारें लिये 57 सालो of the 20th century, including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging आर्थिक उदारीकरण और saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The party was returned to government in coalition, having failed to win a majority, in 2010 under the more `` उदार '' नेतृत्व of दाउद cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and Reformists ( ECR ) parliamentary group, while the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the गठबंधन of यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists ( aecr ) europarty.
They are the third-largest पार्टी in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट and second-largest in the Welsh Assembly.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as part of the Ulster conservatives और unionists व्यवस्था, साथ the uup फिलहाल participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B लड़की समूह जिनकी फाइनल, और शायद सबसे recognizable, line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams.
Formed in 1990 in Houston, टेक्सास, नियति 's चाइल्ड सदस्यों began उनके musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After years of limited success, they were हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड as नियति 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the रिलीज of उनके best-selling दूसरी एल्बम, the लिखने 's on the वॉल, जिससे contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
Despite critical and commercial success, the समूह थी plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil, as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however, in 2000, फ्रैंकलिन थी बर्खास्त, leaving उन्हें as a trio.
Their third album, उत्तरजीवी, जिससे contains विषयवस्तु the पब्लिक interpreted as a चैनल to the group 's experience, contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women ``, `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious ``.
In 2002, they announced a hiatus and re-united two सालो बाद लिये the रिलीज of उनके चौथी स्टुडियो album, Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी to date.
Billboard पत्रिका बाँधने the समूह as एक of the महानतम musical trios of सब समय, the नवीं most successful artist/band of the 2000s, and placed the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
The Centers for बीमारी कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय एजेंसी अंतर्गत the विभाग of स्वास्थ्य and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
It works to protect पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा by providing information to enhance health decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations.
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens और अन्य सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ), पर्यावरणीय स्वास्थ्य, occupational सुरक्षा और स्वास्थ्य, स्वास्थ्य प्रमोशन, चोट रोकथाम and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
The CDC is the United States ' national पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य संस्थान और is a founding सदस्य of the International Association of National Public Health Institutes.
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time, स्थान, और परिमाण of a भविष्य भूकंप भीतर stated हद '', और विशेषकर of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region. ''
This can be distinguished इससे भूकंप forecasting, जिससे is the probabilistic मूल्यांकन of general earthquake hazard, including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes, in a given area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further distinguished from real-time earthquake warning systems, which, upon detection of a कठोर भूकंप, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an earthquake prediction must be precise enough to warrant the cost of increased precautions, including disruption of ordinary क्रियाएँ और कॉमर्स, और timely enough that preparation can be made.
Predictions must also be reliable, as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only economically costly, लकिन seriously undermine विश्वास in, and thereby the effectiveness of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a magnitude of 4.0 or greater, trivial success in earthquake prediction is easily obtained using sufficiently व्यापक पैरामीटर्स of समय, स्थान, or परिमाण.
However, such trivial `` कामयाब predictions '' are not useful.
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports that they were predicted, or at least anticipated, but no claim of a कामयाब भविष्यवाणी of a प्रमुख earthquake has survived close inquiry.
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that कुछ विधि of predicting भूकंप might be मिला, but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it was even possible.
While many scientists स्टिल थाम कि, दिए पर्याप्त संसाधन, prediction might be possible, many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13, 1993 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, सिंगर, संगीतकार, songwriter and record producer.
Ryan is best known for starring as बेली पिकेट in the डिज़्नी Channel Original Series The Suite Life on Deck.
In 2008, The Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among बच्चे 6-11 और the no. 2 scripted श्रेणी among tweens 9-14.
Ryan प्रारंभ एक्टिंग in पेशेवर थिएटर at the आयु of सात ; in 2007 वो appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney.
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 विशेषता फिल्मी The Longshots as Edith.
In 2009, वो अतिथि स्ट्रक्चर in an एपीसोड of wizards of waverly प्लेस in Wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana as Bailey Pickett along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, she स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी 16 बधाइयां, जिससे थी the सबसे देखी केबल program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie received high viewership in the वयस्कों जनसांख्यिकी ( 18-34 ).
जल्द बाद कि, रयान स्ट्रक्चर in the independent theatrical film, What If..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the new डिज़्नी चैनल असली फिल्म, रेडियो विद्रोही, जहाँ वो portrays the role of Tara Adams, a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
Released February 17, 2012.
Ryan stars in the titular role in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी, Jessie.
Stührling tourbillon गति ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John अर्नाल्ड, a tourbillon aims to काउंटर the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement और संतुलन व्हील in a घूर्णन पिंजरा, to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve सटीकता, tourbillons हैं स्टिल शामिल in कुछ महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The mechanism is usually exposed on the देखें 's फेस to दिखाएँ it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously known as microsoft installer ) is a तन्त्र घटक used for the installation, maintenance, and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation information, and often the फाइलें themselves, हैं packaged in संस्थापना पैकेज, loosely रिलेशनल databases संरचित as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '', from their default file extension.
Windows Installer contains significant changes from its पूर्ववर्ती, सेटअप api.
New features include a GUI framework and automatic पीढी of the uninstallation अनुक्रम.
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as पुरानी संस्करण of installshield and NSIS.
Microsoft encourages third parties to उपयोग खिड़कियाँ installer as the आधार लिये संस्थापना frameworks, so कि वे synchronize correctly with other installers and keep the internal database of installed products consistent.
Important features such as rollback and versioning निर्भर on a सतत internal database for reliable operation.
Furthermore, Windows Installer facilitates the principle of तनिक विशेषाधिकार by performing software installations by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a लकीर of alcoholic पेय, originally marketed as energy drinks, sold by Phusion Projects of Chicago, Illinois.
Phusion operates as Drink चार brewing कम्पनी.
Four Loko, the company 's सबसे लोकप्रिय पेय, debuted in the United States market in 2005.
It is now sold in 48 states, and in Canada, The बहामा, बोलीविया, होंडुरास, और यूरोपीय.
The name `` Four '' is derived from the original energy drink 's four प्रमुख संघटक : दारू, कैफीन, taurine, and guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of legal, ethical, and health concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to the underaged और the purported खतरे of combining दारू और कैफीन.
After the beverage was banned in several राज्य, a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed कैफीन, taurine, and guarana as ingredients, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
The neck of a guitar showing the nut ( in the पृष्ठभूमि, coloured white ) and first four metal frets.
A fret is a raised element on the गर्दन of a stringed instrument.
Frets usually extend across the पूरा चौडाई of the गर्दन.
On most आधुनिक पश्चिमी fretted यंत्र, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
On some historical instruments and non-european यंत्र, frets हैं बना of pieces of string tied around the neck.
Frets divide the neck into fixed खण्ड at intervals सम्बन्धित to a musical फ्रेमवर्क.
On instruments ऐसे as guitars, प्रत्येक fret represents one semitone in the standard western system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones.
Fret is often used as a verb, अर्थ बस `` to दबायें bas the string behind a fret. ''
Fretting प्रायः refers to the frets and/or their system of placement.
There was consumption of दारू दोनो दौरान and after prohibition.
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production, distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages in the United States and थी widely समर्थित by the अमरीकी पब्लिक जब it गई into effect in 1920.
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most निजी और सोशल समस्याएं और निषेध थी देखी as the समाधान to the nation 's poverty, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the famous evangelist Billy Sunday said that `` The slums होगा जल्द be only a memory.
We will turn our prisons into कारखानों और हमारी jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( Compare christianity और दारू. )
Since alcohol थी to be बैन और चूंकि it थी देखी as the कारण of most, if not all, crime, some communities sold their jails.
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted कि `` वहीँ is as much मौका of repealing the eighteenth amendment as वहीँ is लिये a हमिंगबर्ड to मक्खी to the ग्रह Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI आयाम प्रतीक : l ), is the आधारभूत ईकाई of length in the International System of Units ( SI ).
Originally intended to be एक ten-millionth of the अलहदा इससे the धरती 's equator to the North Pole ( at sea level ), its definition has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
Since 1983, it has been पारिभाषित as `` the लंबाई of the पाथ travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
Geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary रॉक्स in makhtesh Gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
Geologists explaining the महत्व of volcanic ash layers to students on field in Iceland
A geologist is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन the ठोस और द्रव पदार्थ कि constitutes the Earth as well as the processes and history that has shaped it.
Geologists usually engage in अध्ययन geology.
Geologists, studying अधिक of an लागू विज्ञान than a सैद्धांतिक एक, जरूर approach Geology using physics, chemistry and biology as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in अन्य फ़ील्ड, हैं generally more exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab.
Geologists are engaged in exploration for खनन कंपनियाँ in search of metals, oils, and other Earth resources.
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and आपदाओं चेतावनी और शमन, अध्ययन भूकंप, volcanic कार्यकलाप, tsunamis, मौसम तूफ़ान, और the जैसे ; उनके studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events.
Currently, geologists are also engaged in the discussion of जलवायु बदलें, as वे पढ़ाई the इतिहास और प्रमाण for this Earth process.
Below is a व्यापक ड्रिल और tap आकार चार्ट for all drills, imperial and metric, and taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern vacuum tubes, ज़्यादातर miniature style
In electronics, a vacuum tube, electron tube ( in North America ), thermionic valve, tube, or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान through a वैक्यूम in a sealed container.
The container is प्रायः पतला पारदर्शी कांच in a roughly cylindrical shape.
The simplest vacuum tube, the diode, is essentially an incandescent लाइट bulb with an added electrode inside.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons are `` boiled '' off its सतह और into the वैक्यूम अंदर the बल्ब.
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is बना अधिक धनात्मक than the hot फिलामेंट, a direct current flows through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only flows in एक दिशा, it makes it संभावित to बदलें an प्रत्यावर्ती current applied to the filament to direct current.
The introduction of a third electrode, a grid between the फिलामेंट और the थाली, yields another function.
A voltage लागू to the ग्रिड नियंत्रण the वर्तमान flowing from the filament to the plate.
Thus, it allows the device to be प्रयुक्त as an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धक.
Vacuum tubes are thus used for rectification, amplification, switching, or समान प्रसंस्करण or सृष्टि of विद्युत signals.
The vast majority of modern day tubes consist of a sealed container with a vacuum inside, and essentially rely on तापायनिक उत्सर्जन of electrons इससे a hot फिलामेंट or a कैथोड heated by the filament.
Some exceptions to this are dealt साथ in the खण्ड परिचय gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were नाजुक to the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रौद्योगिकी, जिससे drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting, television, radar, sound reinforcement, sound recording and reproduction, large telephone networks, analog and digital computers, and industrial process control.
Although some अनुप्रयोग था counterparts using पहले technologies ऐसे as the चिंगारी gap transmitter or mechanical computers, it was the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical.
In most अनुप्रयोग, solid-state डिवाइस ऐसे as transistors and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes.
Solid-state devices last longer and are smaller, अधिक कुशल, अधिक विश्वसनीय, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant अनावश्यक ऊष्मा, और can लो अनेक seconds—many मिनट्स in नाजुक applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance.
However, tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been विकसित, हैं अव्यवहारिक, or जहाँ a ट्यूब रै श्रेष्ठ प्रदर्शन, as साथ कुछ डिवाइस in पेशेवर audio and high-power radio transmitters.
tubes हैं स्टिल उत्पादित for such applications.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be नष्ट by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स उत्पादित by नाभिकीय विस्फोट and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured मिठाई, फिलहाल उत्पादित and marketed by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a division of Mars, Inc.
They have hard शुगर शेल जिससे carry the letter S.
The inside is मुख्यतः शुगर, मकई सिरप, और hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit juice, citric acid, and natural and artificial flavours.
The confectionery has been sold in a variety of फ्लेवर संग्रहण, ऐसे as तीव्र and Wild Berry.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a British राजनेता जो थी the प्रधान मंत्री of the संयुक्त किंगडम इससे 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as एक of the महानतम wartime नेताओ of the 20th सदी, चर्चिल was also an officer in the British Army, a historian, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British Prime Minister in history to have प्राप्त the नोबेल पुरस्कार in साहित्य, and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an aristocratic family as the पोता of the 7th ड्यूक of Marlborough.
His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was a charismatic politician who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother, Jennie जेरोम, थी an अमरीकी socialite.
As a यंग फौज अधिकारी, he देखी कार्रवाई in British India, The Sudan, and the Second Boer War.
He gained fame as a युद्ध correspondent और लिखा किताबे about his campaigns.
At the forefront of politics for fifty सालो, he आयोजित अनेक राजनैतिक और कैबिनेट positions.
Before the First World War, he served as President of the Board of व्यापार, घर सचिव, और पहला रब of the admiralty as भाग of the asquith Liberal government.
During the war, he continued as First Lord of the Admiralty until the disastrous gallipoli अभियान caused उसके प्रस्थान इससे सरकारी.
He then briefly resumed active army service on the Western सामने as कमांडर of the 6th बटालियन of the royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to government as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of राज्य लिये युद्ध, और सचिव of State for Air.
After the War, Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the सुनहरा मानक at इसके pre-war पैरिटी, a मूव widely देखी as बनाना deflationary pressure on the UK economy.
Also controversial was his opposition to increased home rule for India and his resistance to the 1936 abdication of एडवर्ड viii.
Out of office and politically `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s, चर्चिल took the सीसे in चेतावनी परिचय नाजी जर्मनी और in campaigning लिये rearmament.
On the outbreak of the Second World War, he was again appointed पहला रब of the admiralty.
Following the resignation of नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 may 1940, Churchill became Prime Minister.
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat, surrender, or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance, especially during the मुश्किल जल्दी दिनों of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood अलोन among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler.
Churchill was particularly विख्यात लिये उसके भाषणों और रेडियो प्रसारण, which helped inspire the British people.
He led Britain as Prime मंत्री जबतक विजय over Nazi Germany had been secured.
After the Conservative पार्टी खोया the 1945 चुनाव, he became Leader of the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government.
After जीतना the 1951 चुनाव, he again became प्रधान Minister, before retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, Elizabeth II granted him the honour of a state funeral, जिससे देखी एक of the largest सभाओं of world statesmen in history.
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll, Churchill is widely regarded as होने among the सबसे influential लोगों in अंग्रेजों history.
Ruby Gloom is an animated television दिखाएँ आधारित on an वस्त्र franchise.
The show is produced by nelvana और began airing on अक्तूबर 13, 2006 in Canada on the network YTV.
It सितारों the आवाज़ें of सारा gadon, एमिली Hampshire, and Peter Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in यूरोपीय ) manufactured by the घाट Motor Company since 1998.
Ford began sales of the Focus to Europe in July 1998 और in उत्तर अमेरिका दौरान 1999 लिये the 2000 model year.
In Europe, South America, North America and South Africa, the फ़ोकस replaced the विभिन्न संस्करण of the घाट अनुरक्षण बेची in those markets.
In Asia and Australasia, it replaced the घाट Laser.
As of the first half of 2012, the Focus surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become the संसार 's बेहतरीन selling automobile nameplate.
The Focus has been considered one of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the past fifty years by British magazine CAR.
An agar plate -- an उदाहरण of a bacterial growth medium.
specifically, it is a streak थाली ; the orange lines and dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms or कोशिकाएं, or छोटी पौधे जैसे the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are different types of media for growing अलग प्रकार of कोशिकाएं.
There are two major types of विकास मीडिया : those प्रयुक्त लिये कोशिका संस्कृति, जिससे उपयोग विशिष्ट कोशिका प्रकार निकला from plants or animals, and microbiological culture, which are used for growing microorganisms, such as bacteria or yeast.
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ; specialized media are sometimes जरूरी लिये microorganism और कोशिका culture growth.
Some organisms, termed fastidious organisms, require specialized environments due to जटिल nutritional आवश्यकताएँ.
Viruses, for example, are obligate intracellular parasites and require a growth मीडियम containing जीना कोशिकाएं.
A talent agent, or बुकिंग एजेंट, is a व्यक्ति जो पाता कार्य लिये अभिनेताओं, लेखक, फिल्मी निर्देशकों, संगीतकारों, models, producers, professional athletes, writers and other people in various entertainment businesses.
An agent also defends, supports and promotes the ब्याज of his/her क्लाइंट.
Agents can not produce their own shows due to विरोध of interest.
A talent agent जरूर be परिचित साथ उनके क्लाइंट.
An agent has to know what kind of work the client can और can नहीं do in अनुक्रम to मैच उन्हें साथ विभिन्न jobs.
Having an एजेंट is नहीं required, but does help the artist in getting jobs.
In many cases casting directors, or other व्यवसायों, go to हुनर एजेंसियों to find artists they are looking for.
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's आय ( typically 10 % ).
Agents sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of एजेंटों कि हैं स्थापित by कलाकार 's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates.
There are also पेशेवर संगठन कि license talent agencies.
Since the decline in viewership in थिएटर, इससे the 1950s to 1960s, this caused a monumental shift in how studios would produce films and thus reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors.
Actors and अभिनेत्रियों यहूद working लिये the studios लकिन यहूद नहीं स्वामित्व by one major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios.
Because of this, agents were now देखी as a necessity बजाय of an option.
एजेंटों अभी became तीसरा पार्टियों कि negotiated between studios and clients, this making their services imperative between each party.
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code, which calls an agent a `` person or निगम जो engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, होनहार, or attempting to procure नियुक्ति लिये कलाकार or artists. ''
Mars has two known moons, Phobos और deimos, जिससे हैं विचार to be captured asteroids.
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who, in यूनानी mythology, accompanied उनके पिता एरीस, परमेश्वर of war, into battle.
एरीस थी ज्ञात as Mars to the Romans.
It is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between phobos और deimos may be उपस्थित लकिन none have been discovered.
In law enforcement parlance, the term हत्या किताब refers to the मामला file of a murder investigation.
Typically, murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches, autopsy and forensic रिपोर्ट्स, transcripts of जांचकर्ताओं ' टीप और गवाह interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the पूरा पेपर ट्रेल of a हत्या छानबीन, from the time the murder is first reported through the arrest of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically गार्ड हत्या किताबे carefully, और it is असामान्य लिये नागरिकों to be दिए unfettered access to these kinds of records, especially for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller कि varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 सेंटीमीटर ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
वे हैं generally used in fruit salad.
A KSA, or Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities, is a series of कथा कथन कि हैं जरूरी जब applying to United States Federal government job openings.
KSAs are used to determine, साथ साथ resumes, जो the बेहतरीन आवेदकों are when several candidates qualify for a job.
The knowledge, skills and abilities ( ksas ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब performance of a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement.
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to stop requiring जॉब आवेदकों to भरण आउट the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's करियर और शैक्षणिक पृष्ठभूमि कि presumably qualify एक to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, कौशल, और abilities ( ksa ) is a संक्षिप्त essay about one 's talent and expertise and related experiences ( work, education, volunteer ) and accomplishments.
A series of ksa कथन हैं प्रायः जरूरी जब applying लिये सबसे federal government and some state and city government jobs.
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the सामर्थ्य of a prospective applicant in terms of likely ability to perform the duties of the job.
Most government hiring officials look लिये a छोटी, कुरकुरे और साफ ksa कि emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work.
KSA कथन हैं भी ज्ञात as Evaluation Factors.
Other एजेंसियों sometimes कॉल उन्हें `` दरजा कारकों '', `` विशेषता Ranking Factors '', `` Knowledge, Abilities, skills and Other Characteristics '', or `` Job Elements ''.
The नाम can be बस a नाम लकिन प्रायः it influences content and length of the essay.
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the time the each ksa फ़ैक्टर चाहिए be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
The below definitions are पारिभाषित by the u.S. दफ्तर of Personnel Management :
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes required to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying सेवा, शिक्षा, or training.
Knowledge - Is a body of सूचना लागू सीधे to the performance of a function.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a सीखे psychomotor अधिनियम.
क्षमता - is competence to perform an observable behavior or a behavior that results in an observable product.
The scoring of KSA essays is आधारित on a स्केल of इससे एक to 100.
जॉब आवेदकों जरूर स्कोर above 70 to be considered for the position.
High scores हैं निकला through answering the ksa सवाल as specifically as possible, providing examples from previous employment or training that clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications.
When applying to federal government positions, a Federal Resume is usually जरूरी in जोड to ksa statements.
सही
Whole grains are खाद्यान्न दाने कि contain खाद्यान्न रोगाणु, endosperm, and bran, in contrast to refined grains, which retain only the endosperm.
आम पूरे grains include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley - hulled और Dehulled ( not Pearl )
मक्का
भूरा राइस
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted Grains
buckwheat
Common whole grain उत्पाद include:
Whole गेहूं flour
Whole गेहूं ब्रैड
Whole गेहूं पास्ता
Rolled जई or oat groats
triticale flour
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff आटा
आम परिष्कृत non-whole grain products include:
Love Always is the डेब्यू एल्बम of अमरीकी r & B duo K-Ci & JoJo, released on June 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at various studios in नई यॉर्क और the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997.
it थी उत्पादित by जोजो और अनेक others, including DeVante Swing, James Mtume, and Jeff Redd.
The duo were originally a भाग of jodeci before this album.
The album peaked at sixth on the US Billboard 200 and भी appeared on अंतरराष्ट्रीय charts.
The single `` सब my जीवन `` charted क्रमांक एक in अनेक देशों, और सब चार of the album 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love Always was received favorably by critics, who praised the भाइयो ' गायन क्षमता और the उत्पादन.
The album has been certified तीन टाइम्स प्लेटिनम by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden.
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 million copies in the संयुक्त राज्य.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ), or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the interest rate on the नोट periodically समायोजित आधारित on an अनुक्रमणिका जिससे reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate.
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, लकिन जहाँ the lender offers no विशिष्ट कड़ी to the underlying market or index the rate can be changed at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States, whilst in the United States, `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common, and implies a बंधक regulated by the संघीय सरकारी, साथ कैप्स on आरोप.
In many देशों, समायोज्य रेट mortgages हैं the norm, और in such places, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) securities, the Cost of Funds Index ( cofi ), और the लंदन interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders use their own cost of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका, बल्कि than using other indices.
इस is किया to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया for the lender, whose own cost of funding will usually be related to the index.
नतीजतन, भुगतान बना by the borrower may change over time with the changing interest rate ( alternatively, the term of the loan may change ).
This is distinct from the graduated payment बंधक, जिससे offers बदलना भुगतान amounts but a fixed interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage, the fixed रेट बंधक, the ऋणात्मक amortization बंधक, और the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates transfer part of the ब्याज रेट रिस्क इससे the lender to the borrower.
They can be used where मनमौजी ब्याज दरों मेक फिक्स्ड रेट लोन मुश्किल to obtain.
The borrower लाभ if the ब्याज रेट falls but loses if the interest rate increases.
The borrower लाभ इससे घटाया मार्जिन to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages.
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy, a United States Senator और bhai of assassinated अध्यक्ष जॉन fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी, took प्लेस shortly बाद मध्यरात्रि on जून 5, 1968, in लॉस एंजिल्स, California, during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election, 1968.
After winning the California and South Dakota प्राथमिक चुनावों लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, कैनेडी थी शॉट as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan sirhan, a 24-year-old फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन अप्रवासी, थी convicted of कैनेडी 's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime.
sirhan 's वकील have released statements claiming evidence that he was framed.
The shooting was अंकित on ऑडियो टेप by a freelance समाचारपत्र रिपोर्टर, and the aftermath was captured on film.
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's Cathedral in नई यॉर्क लिये दो दिनों पहले a अंत्येष्टि mass was held on June 8.
His body was interred near his brother जॉन at आर्लिंगटन नेशनल Cemetery.
His death prompted the सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार by the संयुक्त States Secret Service.
Hubert humphrey गई on to जीत the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये the presidency, but ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon.
As with his brother Jack 's death, Bobby 's हत्या और the हालातों surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories.
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one of only two sitting United States सीनेटरों to be assassinated ( the अन्य होने huey long ).
The Modern आयु of कॉमिक किताबे is an अनौपचारिक नाम लिये the काल in the इतिहास of मुख्यधारा अमरीकी कॉमिक books generally considered to last from the mid-1980s until present day.
in इस काल, कॉमिक किताब वर्ण generally became गहरा और अधिक psychologically complex, creators became better-known and active in changing the industry, independent comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An alternate name for this काल is the अंधेरा आयु of कॉमिक किताबे, due to the popularity and artistic influence of grim titles, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry मिले सैली... is a 1989 American romantic comedy film written by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner.
It सितारों बिली क्रिस्टल as हैरी and Meg Ryan as Sally.
The story फ़ॉलो the शीर्षक वर्ण इससे the समय वे मिलें just before sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City.
The film उठाता the सवाल `` can मेन और महिलाओं कभी बस be मित्रों ? '' और अग्रिम अनेक विचार परिचय संबंध that became household concepts, such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the film came from Reiner 's return to single life बाद a तलाक.
An interview ephron conducted साथ reiner provided the basis for Harry.
Sally was based on Ephron and कुछ of उसके मित्रों.
Crystal came on board और बना उसके अपना योगदान to the screenplay, making Harry funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the संवाद आधारित on the real-life दोस्ती between reiner और क्रिस्टल.
The soundtrack consists of मानकों performed by हैरी connick, jr., साथ a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick won his first ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन जैज़ Male Vocal Performance.
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique, which involved opening it in a few चुनें शहरों, letting धनात्मक शब्द of मुँह generate ब्याज, और तब gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks.
When Harry Met सैली... grossed a कुल of us $ 92.8 million in North America.
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award, an Oscar nomination, and a Writers Guild of अमेरिका पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये उसके पटकथा.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list of the top comedy films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और क्रमांक 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
in जल्दी 2004, the फिल्मी थी adapted for the stage in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of boxed पास्ता bundled साथ a पैकेट or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of each box are संयुक्त साथ browned मैदान बीफ, जल और milk to create a complete dish.
The product line also features उत्पाद साथ अन्य starches ऐसे as राइस or potatoes instead of pasta.
It is बना by General Mills.
Although the classic boxed हैमबर्गर हेल्पर उत्पाद तभी सप्लाई the मंड item and the sauce packets, some varieties of the product include ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, which features some of the brand 's classic varieties in a पूरा भोजन kit रूप, साथ frozen मैदान बीफ और frozen सॉस packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag.
There is also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper containing dehydrated meat, noodles and seasonings in a small pouch, requiring तभी जल to be added.
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '', an anthropomorphic animated, four fingered left-hand glove, which appears in the product 's टेलीविज़न commercials और on the पैकेज.
Ceres as देखी साथ the Hubble Space Telescope.
it is the तभी बौना planet in the asteroid belt.
Pluto in approximate true colour based on हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी ऐल्बीडो data
Haumea with its moons, hiʻiaka और namaka ( artist 's conception )
Makemake ( कलाकार 's धारणा )
Eris and its moon Dysnomia as seen साथ the हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object that is neither a ग्रह nor a उपग्रह.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its आकार to be नियंत्रित by gravitation, लकिन कि नापसंद a ग्रह रै नहीं साफ इसके कक्षीय प्रदेश of other objects.
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as भाग of a three-way categorization of लाशें orbiting the Sun, brought about by an increase in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size, and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object, Eris.
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of उनके कक्षा हैं पारिभाषित as ग्रह, जबकि those that are not massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies.
Dwarf ग्रह आइये in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike भूरा, जो खोजा और अन्य नई बौना ग्रह, लकिन रै महरूम अस्वीकृत by एलन stern, who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990.
The IAU फिलहाल recognizes पाँच बौना planets in the Solar System :, Pluto,,, and.
However, only two of these bodies, Ceres and Pluto, have been observed in पर्याप्त विवरण to demonstrate कि वे fit the definition.
Eris has been accepted as a बौना ग्रह क्युकी it is more massive than Pluto.
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute परिमाण उज्जवल than +1 ( और hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The only two such वस्तुएँ ज्ञात at the समय, माकेमाके और हउमेया, गई through this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected that another सौ or so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ in the Solar System are dwarf planets.
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire प्रदेश ज्ञात as the kuiper बेल्ट is छान, और कि the क्रमांक may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
Individual astronomers recognize several of these, और in अगस्त 2011 माइक भूरा प्रकाशित a सूची of 390 प्रत्याशी objects, ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets. '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the पाँच स्वीकृत by the iau प्लस,,, और – as `` वस्तुतः certain '', with another two dozen highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in अन्य ग्रहीय प्रणालियों साथ the characteristics of dwarf planets has not been addressed.
A debit card ( also known as a bank card or जाँच कार्ड ) is a प्लास्टिक भुगतान कार्ड कि provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution.
Some cards have a भंडारित मान साथ जिससे a भुगतान is made, while most relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account.
The card, where accepted, can be प्रयुक्त बजाय of नकदी जब बनाना purchases.
In some मामले, the प्राथमिक खाता क्रमांक is आबंटित exclusively for use on the Internet and there is no physical card.
In many countries, the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और, in कुछ उदाहरण, नकदी ट्रांजेक्शन.
The development of debit cards, unlike credit cards and charge cards, has generally महरूम देश विशिष्ट resulting in a क्रमांक of अलग प्रणालियों around the world, which were often incompatible.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be प्रयुक्त in अन्य देशों और अनुमत उनके उपयोग लिये अंतरजाल और फोन purchases.
Unlike credit and charge ताश, भुगतान using a डेबिट कार्ड हैं तत्काल transferred इससे the cardholder 's designated bank account, instead of them paying the money back at a later date.
Debit cards usually also allow for तत्काल वापसी of नकदी, acting as the ATM card for withdrawing cash.
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to customers, where a ग्राहक can withdraw नकदी साथ साथ उनके purchase.
Francois henri `` जोकर '' lalanne ( सितंबर 26, 1914 - जनवरी 23, 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी फ़िटनेस, कसरत, और nutritional विशेषज्ञ और motivational speaker who is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero. ''
He वर्णित खुद as होने a `` sugarholic '' and a `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15.
He also had behavioral problems, but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a पब्लिक लेक्चर by पॉल ब्रैग, a well-known पोषण speaker.
During his career, he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the health of its जनसांख्यिकी, लिखने कि `` शारीरिक संस्कृति और पोषण — is the मोक्ष of America. ''
Decades before health and fitness began being promoted by celebrities like जेन फोंडा और रिचर्ड सीमन्स, lalanne थी already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet.
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a फ़िटनेस टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ between 1953 और 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the स्वदेश 's पहला फ़िटनेस gyms in ओकलैंड, California, which became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed toward महिलाओं, जिसको he भी प्रोत्साहित to join his health clubs.
He invented a क्रमांक of कसरत मशीने, including leg-extension and pulley devices.
Besides producing his own series of videos, he coached the elderly and disabled not to forgo कसरत, believing it होता enable उन्हें to बढ़ाएँ उनके strength.
lalanne भी gained मान्यता लिये his success as a bodybuilder, as well as for his prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated, `` कि जोकर lalanne 's an एनिमल !, '' after LaLanne, at 54, beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle लिये फ़िटनेस '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों सब over the संसार to सजीव healthier lives, '' and, as governor of California, had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited lalanne as उसके प्रेरणा to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist.
He थी inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of कीर्ति and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the countries उपयोग प्रणाली समान to सेना.
However, the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth countries, or those formerly under a British influence, use a different set of ranks loosely based on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant, Commander, Captain and commodore हैं prefixed लिये एयर फ़ोर्स उपयोग साथ उड़ान, wing, समूह और एयर, क्रमशः ( the पहला तीन होने the इकाई that they used to command ).
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born अप्रैल 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, she made her acting debut at 16 on television and her विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following साल in jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to critical acclaim.
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ), The लड़की of अपना सपनो ( 2000 ) और स्त्री on शीर्ष ( 2000 ).
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead roles in the 2001 films वैनिला आसमान और उड़ा.
She has since built a successful career, appearing in films from a wide range of genres, including the कॉमेडी waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ), the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ), the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ), and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in volver ( 2006 ) और नौ ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब और अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations for each.
She won the Academy Award for Best supporting अभिनेत्री in 2008 लिये Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
She was the first Spanish actress in history to receive an Academy Award and the first Spanish actress to प्राप्त a स्टार at the हॉलीवुड Walk of Fame.
Cruz has modeled for companies such as Mango, Ralph लॉरेन और l'oréal.
Penélope and her younger sister Mónica Cruz have designed वस्तुएं लिये आम.
She रै दान दोनो उसके time and money to charities.
क्रूज़ रै volunteered in युगांडा और इण्डिया, where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ; she donated her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission.
A wax sculpture of Cruz will be placed in a premier spot in the grevin मोम संग्रहालय in Paris.
File Explorer, previously known as Windows Explorer, is a file manager application and also a नेविगेशन औजार कि is शामिल साथ रिलीज of the microsoft खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली इससे खिड़कियाँ 95 onwards.
It provides a graphical user interface for accessing the संचिका systems.
It is also the component of the operating system that presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस वस्तुएं on the मॉनिटर ऐसे as the taskbar and desktop.
controlling the कंप्यूटर is संभावित बगैर खिड़कियाँ एक्सप्लोरर कार्यशील ( लिये उदाहरण, the File | Run command in Task Manager on NT-derived versions of Windows will function without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका, it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
The Care Bears are characters created by American बधाई in 1981 लिये उपयोग on ग्रीटिंग cards.
The असली कलाकृति लिये the cards was painted by artist Elena Kucharik.
In 1983, Kenner turned the परवाह bears into plush टेडी bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the जमीन बगैर जज्बात ( 1983 ) and The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ).
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988, in addition to three feature films : The Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ), Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ), और the परवाह bears एडवेंचर in Wonderland ( 1987 ).
Each Care Bear comes in a different color and रै a specialized तमगा on इसके पेट कि represents इसके duty and personality.
This तमगा थी ज्ञात as उनके `` tummy symbol. ''
however, the फिल्म परवाह bears : oopsy Does It ! renamed them `` belly badges ''.
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care Bear cousins '', जिससे विशेषता a शेर, खरगोश, पेंगुइन, raccoon, and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears यहूद reintroduced with new toys.
Made by Play-Along Toys, the नई खिलौने offered सुविधाएँ ऐसे as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in दो computer-animated फिल्मों : परवाह bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) और The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took प्लेस, as खूब as the रिलीज of परवाह Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, AG announced a revival TV animated series titled `` परवाह bears : स्वागत to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premiere of the श्रेणी utilizes `` 30 years of caring ''.
It premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, परवाह bears merchandise is still being marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, कनाडा 's कुकी जार Group and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted to acquire the franchise from AGC, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( i-70 ) is an अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग in the संयुक्त राज्य that runs from Interstate 15 near Cove Fort, Utah, to a Park and Ride near Baltimore, Maryland.
It was the first Interstate राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the United States.
i-70 लगभग traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( and also the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the Rockies, the route of I-70 was derived from अनेक स्त्रोत.
I-70 is the fifth longest अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग, बाद i-90, i-80, I-40, and I-10.
The construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the रूट गुजरता through the आइज़नहावर टनल, Glenwood Canyon, and the San Rafael Swell.
The आइज़नहावर टनल is the उच्चतम पाइंट साथ the Interstate Highway system with an elevation of.
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and Kansas have laid claim to be the पहला अंतरराज्यीय in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Though disputed, the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the section of I-70 through Glenwood Canyon, completed in 1992, was the last piece of the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली, as originally नियोजित, to खोलें to ट्रैफ़िक.
फ़ोटो of 1999 total eclipse
As seen from the धरती, a सौर ग्रहण occurs जब the चंद्रमा passes between the Sun and Earth, and the Moon fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
इस can happen तभी at नई चंद्रमा, जब the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy.
In a total eclipse, the disk of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the Moon.
In partial और annular eclipses तभी भाग of the Sun is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit, a little closer to the Earth, and in the वही कक्षीय प्लेन, वहीँ होता be कुल solar eclipses every single month.
However, the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's कक्षा around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so its shadow at new moon usually misses Earth.
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's orbit जरूर क्रॉस इस प्लेन in अनुक्रम लिये an ग्रहण ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical, often taking it far enough away from Earth कि इसके apparent आकार is नहीं विशाल enough to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a लकीर of नोड resulting in at तनिक दो, और up to पाँच, सौर eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular स्थान क्युकी totality exists तभी साथ a सीमित पाथ on Earth 's surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra.
An eclipse is a प्राकृतिक घटना.
Nevertheless, in some ancient and modern cultures, solar eclipses have महरूम attributed to अलौकिक कल्याणकारी or regarded as bad omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its astronomical explanation, as the सूर्य seems to गायब दौरान the दिन और the आसमान darkens in a matter of minutes.
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun, observers should use special eye protection or indirect viewing techniques when viewing a partial ग्रहण, or the आंशिक phases of a total eclipse.
It is safe to view the total phase of a total solar ग्रहण साथ the unaided नजर और बगैर protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles will सफर to रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe or witness predicted central solar eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` part '', `` portion '' ) is a political organization कि typically seeks to influence, or entirely कंट्रोल, सरकारी नीति, प्रायः by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office.
Parties participate in चुनावी अभियान और शैक्षणिक outreach or protest actions.
Parties often espouse an विचारधारा or दृष्टि, expressed in a party program, bolstered by a written platform with specific goals, forming a coalition among disparate interests.
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting पेड़ in the flowering संयंत्र परिवार anacardiaceae.
The mango is native to South Asia, from where it रै महरूम वितरित worldwide to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) हैं भी grown on a अधिक स्थानीयकृत आधार, Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions.
It is the नेशनल फल of इण्डिया, पाकिस्तानी and Philippines.
In several cultures, its fruit and leaves are ritually used as पुष्पक सजावट at विवाह, पब्लिक celebrations and religious ceremonies.
Gill Arnette Byrd, < ref name > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born February 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the सैन डिएगो chargers बाद graduating इससे सैन जोस राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों.
Byrd was inducted into the chargers Hall of Fame in 1998.
He was an all-city कार्यशील वापस और रक्षात्मक वापस at लोवेल ऊँची School ( San Francisco ), helping to lead the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978.
संसार मैप showing the Tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the उत्तरी tropic, is the वृत्त of अक्षांश on the धरती कि marks the most northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith.
This event occurs once per year, at the समय of the जून संक्रांति, जब the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
it फिलहाल ( साल 2013 ) झूठ at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator.
Its Southern गोलार्ध बंटवारा, अंकन the सबसे southerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead, is the Tropic of Capricorn.
These tropics are two of the पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि उपायों or प्रमुख वृत्त of अक्षांश कि चिह्नित मानचित्र of the धरती, besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The positions of these circles of latitude ( अन्य than the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन सापेक्ष to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया, उत्तर America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 डिकोडर ( e.g., a dvd खिलाड़ी, or a कंप्यूटर dvd ड्राइव साथ a software DVD player ).
Commercial dvd फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a संयोजन of h.262/mpeg-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for DVD movies ranges इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, और the बिट रेट is usually adaptive.
It was first उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification थी निर्मित by dvd फ़ोरम and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly available, because every सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd किताब is मालिकाना and confidential.
In computing and specifically Internet, a leech is one who benefits, usually deliberately, from others ' सूचना or प्रयत्न लकिन करता नहीं प्रस्ताव anything in वापसी, or makes तभी टोकन offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech.
In economics, this type of बर्ताव is पुकारा `` फ़्री सवारी '' and is associated with the free rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of कंप्यूटर संसाधन, लकिन प्रायः बजाय to लालची उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit, using too much of कया is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it.
The name derives from the जोंक, an एनिमल कि झंझट रक्त और तब tries to leave unnoticed.
Other terms are used, such as `` freeloader '', लकिन जोंक is the most common.
The full त्रिभुज लोगो, प्रयुक्त in various versions from 1970 to 1993.
The United States Postal सेवा ( usps ), भी ज्ञात as the पोस्ट दफ्तर और u.S. मेल, is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible for providing postal service in the United States.
It is one of the few government agencies explicitly प्राधिकृत by the संयुक्त States Constitution.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the Second Continental कॉंग्रेस, जहाँ बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन थी नियुक्त the पहला postmaster general.
The cabinet-level पोस्ट दफ्तर विभाग थी निर्मित in 1792 इससे फ्रैंकलिन 's आपरेशन and transformed into its current form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 मजदूर और operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the ऑपरेटर of the largest vehicle fleet in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve सब अमेरिकी, regardless of geography, at uniform price and quality.
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' और निजी letterboxes in the संयुक्त States, but still competes against private package delivery services, such as UPS and FedEx.
The usps रै नहीं सीधे प्राप्त taxpayer-dollars चूंकि the early 1980s with the minor exception of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and overseas voters.
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail volume, after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act ``, ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the डाक सेवा to dekh to अन्य स्त्रोत of आय जबकि कटिंग लागत to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, D.C. रै महरूम the capital of the United States since 1800.
Eight other cities have served as the meeting place for कॉंग्रेस और हैं इसलिए माना to have once been the capital of the United States.
in जोड, प्रत्येक of the 50 U.S. states and the five principal territories of the United States maintains its own capital.
राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड set in a ring
The Princess cut is the second most popular cut shape लिये ईंट, अगला to a round brilliant.
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the प्रोफ़ाइल or side-on आकार is समान to कि of an उलट पिरामिड साथ four beveled sides.
The princess cut is a relatively new diamond काटें, having महरूम निर्मित in the 1960s.
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें, in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड, पुकारा the क्राउन, is काटें साथ a गोलाकार face-up आकार और the bottom, called the pavilion, is shaped similar to a cone.
A princess cut with the same चौडाई as the व्यास of a गोलाकार शानदार होगा तौल अधिक as it रै four corners which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant.
The princess cut is sometimes referred to as a वर्गाकार modified brilliant.
However, while displaying the same high degree of brilliance, its faceting स्टाइल is अद्वितीय और completely अलग इससे that of a round brilliant.
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut, having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique, chevron-shaped facets in the मण्डप जिससे combine to दे a पृथक cross-shaped प्रतिबिंब जब the stone is viewed directly through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the ऊँची उपाधि of लाइट वापसी of a round brilliant cut with a distinctive square or rectangular shape.
The square princess cut diamond is usually slightly cheaper than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट of the वही कैरेट वज़न because it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain अधिक क्रिस्टल वज़न makes this shape popular amongst diamond cutters.
Accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA ) and American Gem समाज प्रयोगशाला ( agsl ) और यूरोपीय gem Laboratories-USA ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut.
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an ideal princess cut diamond and many डायमंड निर्माताओं मार्केट आदर्श ईंट साथ differing facet पैटर्न and angles as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify cut grading standards लिये राजकुमारी काटें ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be धोखे by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades.
The name `` Princess Cut '' थी originally प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ another डायमंड काटें, otherwise known as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by Arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The same name was later used and बना लोकप्रिय by ygal पर्लमैन, betzalel Ambar, and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979.
A similar काटें साथ तभी 49 facets, as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the राजकुमारी काटें, थी बाद branded the `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles.
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with faceting समान to कि of a round brilliant cut diamond.
A तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a princess cut diamond.
This can usually be determined by the wire आरेख कि is plotted in डायमंड grading reports.
By adding अधिक chevrons on the मण्डप पक्ष of the डायमंड, the individual facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets.
As a result, it can give a princess काटें डायमंड a `` कुचल बर्फ '' look.
Vice versa, जब a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड रै lesser chevrons, it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets.
the घरेलू श्वान ( canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ), a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora.
The term `` domestic dog '' is generally प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated और रै महरूम the सबसे widely kept working, hunting, and pet animal in human history.
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine species, as opposed to the शब्द `` कुतिया '' लिये the मादा of the प्रजाति.
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern श्वान 's lineage और the आधुनिक भेड़िया 's lineage around 100,000 सालो पहले लकिन,, the oldest चट्टान specimens genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago.
Dogs ' value to जल्दी इंसान hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें जल्दी बनने ubiquitous across world cultures.
Dogs perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and military, companionship, और, अधिक recently, aiding विकलांग individuals.
This impact on human समाज रै दिए उन्हें the उपनाम `` Man 's Best Friend '' in the Western world.
In कुछ संस्कृतियों, dogs are also a source of meat.
In 2001, there were estimated to be 400 लाख कुत्तो in the world.
Most breeds of dogs हैं at सबसे a few सौ सालो बूढ़ा, having महरूम artificially चयनित for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles.
Through this selective breeding, the श्वान रै विकसित into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal.
For example, height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from white through grays ( usually called `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक, और भूरा इससे लाइट ( तन ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` चॉकलेट '' ) in a चौड़ी विभिन्नता of पैटर्न ; coats can be short or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, curly, or smooth.
It is common लिये सबसे breeds to shed this coat.
Diagram of a transmission इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी
A 1973 Siemens इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी, musée des Arts et Métiers, Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an electron beam to illuminate a नमूना और उपज a magnified image.
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the ढांचा of छोटी वस्तुएँ क्युकी electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal light microscopes are limited by विवर्तन to परिचय 200 nm रेज़ोल्यूशन and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक lenses to कंट्रोल the इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम and focus it to form an image.
These electron optical lenses are analogous to the कांच lenses of a light optical microscope.
Electron microscopes हैं प्रयुक्त to investigate the ultrastructure of a चौड़ी दायरा of biological and inorganic specimens including microorganisms, cells, large molecules, biopsy samples, metals, and crystals.
Industrially, the electron microscope is प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये विशेषता कंट्रोल और विफलता analysis.
Modern electron microscopes उपज इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs, using specialized डिजिटल कैमरे or frame grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried मुर्गा तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & seafood, it थी acquired by sandy स्रोतों, जॉर्जिया -based AFC Enterprises, originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a company press रिलीज दिनाँक जून 29, 2007, popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service मुर्गा रेस्तरां समूह, measured by क्रमांक of इकाई '', साथ अधिक than 1,800 रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और over 22 देशों worldwide including Turkey, Northern Cyprus, Bahrain, China, Hong Kong, Iraq, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Singapore, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, Vietnam, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
About thirty स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned, the rest franchised.
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which the व्यक्तिगत pushes a वज़न or प्रतिरोध दूर इससे उन्हें using their legs.
The term leg press also refers to the apparatus प्रयुक्त to perform इस कसरत.
The leg press can be used to evaluate an athlete 's overall lower देह शक्ति ( इससे घुटना संयुक्त to hip ).
Using the diagonal sled-type लेग दबायें machine.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख प्रकार of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled ' प्रकार लेग press.
Weight disks ( plates ) हैं संलग्न सीधे to the sled, which is mounted on rails.
The उपयोक्ता sits नीचे the sled और pushes it upward with their feet.
These machines normally include adjustable safety कोष्ठक कि prevent the उपयोक्ता इससे होने फंस under the weight.
The 'cable ' प्रकार लेग दबायें, or 'seated leg press ', commonly found on multigyms.
The user sits upright and pushes forward with their feet onto a plate that is संलग्न to the वज़न स्टेक by अर्थात् of a long steel cable.
Wendy Williams शिकारी ( born वेन्डी जोन विलियम्स ; जुलाई 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, actress and author.
She hosts a syndicated टेलीविज़न बात दिखाएँ, The Wendy Williams Show.
Prior to television, विलियम्स थी a `` शॉक jockette `` on several radio shows.
Williams has gained notoriety for her on-air spats साथ हस्तियाँ.
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The Wendy Williams Experience which ब्रॉडकास्ट events surrounding her radio show.
She has written an autobiography और अनेक अन्य किताबे, और रै निर्मित a उत्पाद line called Adorn by Wendy Williams.
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech before the House of burgesses in an 1851 पेंटिंग by पीटर F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to पैट्रिक हेनरी इससे a वाक he बना to the Virginia Convention.
On that day, at St. John 's Church in Richmond, Virginia, and is credited with having swung the संतुलन in convincing the वर्जिनिया हाउस of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
Among the delegates to the convention were future US राष्ट्रपतियों थामस जेफरसन और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the country 's Atlantic region, it incorporates the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और मेनलैंड Labrador to the northwest, with a combined area of.
in 2011, the प्रांत 's population was 514,536.
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( सहित इसके संबद्ध छोटी आइलैंड्स ), of जिससे अधिक than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous, with 97.6 % of residents reporting अंग्रेज़ी ( न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड अंग्रेज़ी ) as उनके माँ जीभ in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was also home to अद्वितीय किस्में of फ्रेंच, और आयरिश, as खूब as the now-extinct Beothuk language.
In Labrador, local dialects of Innu-aimun and inuktitut हैं भी बोला.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador 's पूंजी और largest नगर, st. John 's, is Canada 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area, and is home to almost 40 percent of the province 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of government, home to the House of Assembly of Newfoundland and labrador और the उच्चतम अदालत in the क्षेत्राधिकार, the न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड and Labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom, Newfoundland and Labrador became the tenth प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई कनफेडरेशन on कूच 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
On December 6, 2001, an amendment थी बना to the Constitution of Canada to change the province 's official name to Newfoundland and Labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as Newfoundland and to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador.
थियोडोर `` T.R. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; October 27, 1858—January 6, 1919 ) was the 26th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his exuberant personality, range of interests and achievements, and his leadership of the प्रगतिशील गति, as खूब as उसके `` काउंटी `` persona और मजबूत मर्दानगी.
He was a leader of the Republican Party and founder of the first अवतार of the short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` सांड Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before becoming President, he held offices at the city, राज्य, और संघीय levels.
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist, explorer, hunter, author, and soldier are as much a भाग of उसके कीर्ति as any office he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1901, बनाना उसे the youngest president ever ; he beat out the youngest elected president, John F. Kennedy, by only one year.
रूज़वेल्ट थी भी the पहला of तभी तीन sitting presidents to have won the Nobel Peace Prize.
The Teddy bear is named after him, despite his अवमानना लिये होने पुकारा `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in नई यॉर्क नगर, रूज़वेल्ट was a sickly child who suffered from asthma and stayed at home studying natural history.
To overcome his physical weakness, he embraced a ज़ोरदार जीवन.
Home-schooled, he became an eager छात्र of nature.
He attended Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों, जहाँ he पढ़ाई जीवविज्ञान, boxed और विकसित an ब्याज in naval affairs.
In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was निर्वाचित to the नई यॉर्क राज्य सभा, जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार गुट of उसके रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर इतिहासकार ; he लिखा numerous किताबे on hunting, the outdoors, and current political issues, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, his first wife and his mother died on the वही दिन.
He temporarily बाएँ राजनीती और गई to the frontier, बनने a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran for mayor in 1886, finishing तीसरा साथ 60,000 मत.
He बाद gained कीर्ति by taking vigorous charge of the city police.
At the national स्तर, he थी a नेता in civil service reform.
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 जबकि रूज़वेल्ट थी, effectively, कार्यशील the विभाग of the Navy.
He promptly resigned and formed the अशिष्ट राइडर्स – a स्वयंसेवी प्यादे रेजीमेंट that fought in Cuba.
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 और in 1900 was nominated for vice president.
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley on a मंच of ऊँची tariffs, the सुनहरा मानक, साम्राज्यवाद, prosperity at home and victory abroad.
In 1901, President विलियम mckinley थी assassinated and Roosevelt became President.
He attempted to मूव the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( gop ) toward प्रगतिवाद, including trust busting and increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the पहला व्यक्ति निर्वाचित to a पद in उसके अपना सही in 1904 बाद having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his predecessor, winning the largest percentage of the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` वर्गाकार सौदे `` to describe उसके घरेलू कार्यसूची, emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman and naturalist, he प्रचारित the संरक्षण movement.
On the world stage, रूज़वेल्ट 's नीतियों यहूद characterized by उसके स्लोगन, `` बोलो softly and carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common ancestor ( s ) ( other than a parent, child/descendant, sibling, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or सहोदर of a parent/ancestor ).
However in common parlance, `` cousin '' सामान्यतः specifically means `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the English-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad भाव ) और the पूर्वज वे have in आम.
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can अधिक precisely बताएँ kinships साथ आम पूर्वजो मौजूदा कोई क्रमांक of पीढियां in the पास्ट, हालांकि आम उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from September 16, 1983 जबतक may 8, 1987, और in first-run अनुप्रयोग from September 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The series थी निर्मित by Stu Silver.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who, after losing his parents, is adopted by उसके एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by एलेक्स karras, और उसके नई socialite wife, played by Susan Clark.
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple had to adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood, लकिन it थी the अनुकूल वेबस्टर खुद जो drove much of the plot.
The series was produced by Georgian Bay Ltd., Emmanuel Lewis entertainment उद्यमों, Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television.
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes, Webster प्रदर्शित a यंग african-american लड़के अपनाया by a white family.
Three types of कोशिका प्रभाग
Cell division is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a जनक कोशिका divides into two or more daughter cells.
कोशिका प्रभाग प्रायः occurs as part of a larger cell cycle.
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative प्रभाग, whereby प्रत्येक बेटी कोशिका is genetically एकसमान to the parent cell ( mitosis ), and a reductive cell division, whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
दोनो of ये कोशिका प्रभाग चक्र हैं जरूरी in sexually reproducing जीवों at कुछ पाइंट in उनके जीवन साईकिल, और दोनो हैं believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission, where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of organism, हैं preceded by a सिंगल गोलाकार of डीएनए replication.
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba, एक कोशिका प्रभाग is समतुल्य to reproduction – an entire new organism is created.
On a larger scale, mitotic cell division can create progeny from multicellular जीवों, ऐसे as पौधे कि grow इससे cuttings.
Cell division also enables sexually reproducing जीवों to develop इससे the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
And after growth, cell division allows for continual निर्माण और मरम्मत of the सजीव.
A human being 's body experiences about 10,000 खरब कोशिका विभाजन in a lifetime.
कोशिका प्रभाग रै been modeled by finite subdivision rules.
the प्राथमिक चिंता of cell division is the maintenance of the original cell 's genome.
Before प्रभाग can occur, the genomic सूचना कि is भंडारित in chromosomes must be replicated, and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells.
A great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information सतत between `` generations ''.
Mountain ranges of मैसाचुसेट्स, United States.
Howard Jones ( born John Howard जोन्स, 23 फ़रवरी 1955, southampton, हैम्पशायर, England ) is a British musician, singer and songwriter.
according to the गिनीज किताब of अंग्रेजों hit Singles & Albums, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop.
Jones, who was equally popular in the U.S., appeared at Live Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, `` Jones was एक of the धमक आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music मिलाया the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive ध्वनि of New Wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a string of hits in the मिड और लेट 1980s, पहले he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle रेसिंग इवेंट आयोजित on the आइल of man और थी लिये अनेक सालो the सबसे prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 before होने transferred to the संयुक्त किंगडम बाद सुरक्षा चिंताएं और चलाएं by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season.
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the TT Formula 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977 to 1990 to बचाना the इवेंट 's racing status.
From 1989 the racing has been developed by the आइल of man विभाग of पर्यटन as the Isle of Man TT Festival.
The race is run in a time-trial स्वरूप on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद लिये रेसिंग by the provisions of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ).
The first race was held on मंगलवार 28 may 1907 और थी पुकारा the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy.
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of the st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 मील 1,470 गज for road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder class, and overall winner of the पहला इवेंट in 1907, थी चार्ली collier सवारी a matchless मोटरसाइकिल in a time of 4 hours, 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph.
The winner of the twin-cylinder class was Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a समय of 4 घंटों 21 मिनट्स और 52 सेकेंड at an औसत रेस गति of 36.21 mph.
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 Isle of Man TT रेस, थी दान by the बिल्ले de mouzilly st. मंगल.
It featured a stylised version of ओलम्पिक परमेश्वर hermes by Giovanni Da Bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel.
The trophy थी समान in डिज़ाइन to the 18 कैरेट सुनहरा montague ट्रॉफी प्रस्तुत to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy.
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now प्रस्तुत annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the centenary इवेंट जिससे भागा between 26 may और 8 जून 2007 और प्रदर्शित a special Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on the original St John 's छोटी कोर्स थी flagged दूर by पूर्व संसार motor-cycle चैंपियन Geoff Duke.
The first of the participants to be flagged away थी the recently लौटी twin-cylinder peugeot-norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907.
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 triumph बाघ 100 500 cc और अन्य पूर्व tt प्रतिस्पर्धी सहित एलन cathcart, सैमी मिलर, उपनाम Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs when people are बगैर कार्य और actively seeking work.
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by सब individuals फिलहाल in the मजदूर फ़ोर्स.
During अवधि of मंदी, an अर्थव्यवस्था प्रायः अनुभवों a relatively high unemployment rate.
According to International श्रमिक संगठन रपट, अधिक than 197 million people globally are out of work or 6 % of the world 's workforce were without a job in 2012.
There remains considerable सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding the causes, consequences and solutions for unemployment.
Classical economics, New classical economics, and the आस्ट्रिया स्कूल of अर्थशास्त्र argue कि मार्केट mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय means of resolving unemployment.
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside, such as unionization, minimum wage laws, कर, और अन्य regulations कि वे अर्जी discourage the hiring of workers.
keynesian अर्थशास्त्र emphasizes the cyclical प्रकृति of बेरोजगारी and recommends government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions.
This theory focuses on तूल झटके कि एकाएक reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include वित्तीय stimuli, सरेआम वित्तपोषित जॉब सृष्टि, और expansionist monetary policies.
In addition to ये व्यापक theories of बेरोजगारी, वहीँ हैं a few categorizations of बेरोजगारी that are used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system.
the प्रमुख प्रकार of बेरोजगारी शामिल संरचनात्मक बेरोजगारी which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets, including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets.
Structural arguments emphasize causes and समाधान सम्बन्धित to विघटनकारी technologies और globalization.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their अपना कार्य और कैसा कि compares to वर्तमान मजदूरी दरों प्लस the समय और प्रयत्न required to find a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता जॉब प्रविष्टि threshold and wage rates.
Behavioral economists highlight individual biases in decision making, and often involve समस्याएं और समाधान concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages.
collectivism is कोई philosophic, राजनैतिक, धार्मिक, आर्थिक, or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a society or civilization.
Collectivism is a मौलिक सांस्कृतिक तत्व कि exists as the रिवर्स of व्यक्तिगत in इंसान प्रकृति ( in the same way high context culture exists as the reverse of low context culture ).
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within social groups ( such as an `` in-group '', in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases, the priority of group goals over व्यक्तिगत लक्ष्य.
collectivists प्रायः फ़ोकस on जातियाँ, society, nation or country.
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political, economic and educational philosophies throughout history and most human समाजों in अभ्यास contain तत्व of दोनो व्यक्तिगत and collectivism.
Some उदाहरण of collectivist cultures include India and Japan.
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism और लंबवत collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals, and is यूँ प्रायः आधारित on decentralization and egalitarianism.
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of शक्ति और on moral और सांस्कृतिक conformity, और is इसलिए based on centralization and hierarchy.
A cooperative enterprise would be an example of आड़ा collectivism, whereas a सैन्य पदानुक्रम would be an example of vertical collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an प्रतिरक्षा mediated बीमारी of the brain.
It usually occurs following a वाइरल संक्रमण लकिन may appear following टीकाकरण, bacterial or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously.
As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to multiple sclerosis, और is माना भाग of the अनेक काठिन्य borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is परिचय 8 प्रति 1,000,000 people per year.
Although it occurs in all ages, most reported मामले हैं in children और adolescents, साथ the average age around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as ऊँची as 5 %, पूरा रिकवरी is देखी in 50 to 75 % of मामले, जबकि up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability.
The average समय to रिकवर is एक to six months.
ADEM produces अनेक जलन lesions in the brain and spinal cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical और सेंट्रल श्वेत पदार्थ और cortical gray-white जंक्शन of दोनो cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord, but periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved.
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating episode, it is called तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the पाचन प्रणाली जिससे कृत्यों as an महत्वपूर्ण organ of the digestive tract in some animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
It is involved in the second phase of पाचन, following mastication ( chewing ).
The stomach is located between the ग्रासनाल and the small intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease and strong acids to aid in food digestion, ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through चिकना muscular contortions ( पुकारा segmentation ) पहले sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines.
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately इससे stoma ( ), `` मुँह ''.
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning related to the पेट ) हैं दोनो निकला इससे the Greek word gaster ( ).
1940 Pontiac खास श्रेणी 25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style, especially a स्टेशन वैगन, जहाँ the पश्च bodywork is constructed of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the demise of actual wood construction, निर्माताओं प्रयुक्त अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional, simulated framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was evoked abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स साथ a श्रेणी of side and rear horizontal grooves.
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc.
Just like the shell of a clam, a pearl is बना up of कैल्सियम कार्बोनेट in minute crystalline form, which has been deposited in concentric layers.
The ideal पर्ल is perfectly गोलाकार और चिकना, but many other shapes of pearls ( baroque pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and objects of beauty for many centuries, and because of this, the शब्द पर्ल रै become a रूपक लिये कुछ बहुत विरल, ठीक, सराहनीय, और valuable.
The most मूल्यवान मोती occur अनायास in the wild, but they are extremely rare.
These wild pearls are referred to as प्राकृतिक pearls.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters और freshwater mussels मेक up the बहुमत of those that are currently sold.
नकल मोती हैं भी widely बेची in inexpensive आभूषण, but the quality of their iridescence is usually very poor, and often, artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls.
Pearls have been harvested और cultivated primarily लिये use in jewelry, but in the past they were also stitched onto lavish clothing.
Pearls have भी महरूम कुचल और used in cosmetics, medicines, and in paint formulations.
whether जंगली or संस्कारी, gem quality pearls are almost always nacreous and, as is the interior of the shell that produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs हैं सक्षम of producing मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological लैब्स और भी अंतर्गत u.S. संघीय व्यापार आयोग नियम, and are formed in the same way, most of them have no value, except as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as Live Search, Windows Live Search, and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) इससे microsoft.
bing थी अनावरण by microsoft सीईओ स्टीव बाल्मर on may 28, 2009 at the All Things Digital conference in San Diego for release on June 1.
Notable परिवर्तन शामिल the लिस्टिंग of ढूंढें सुझाव while queries are entered and a list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced a deal in जिससे bing होता शक्ति याहू ! Search.
All Yahoo ! Search global customers and partners are expected to have बना the परिवर्तन by जल्दी 2012.
In October 2011, Bing announced it was working on नई back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना, with the goal of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users.
Known as `` Tiger '', the new index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै महरूम incorporated into bing globally, since August 2011.
In May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that includes `` Sidebar '', a social feature that खोज उपयोक्ता ' सोशल संजाल लिये सूचना प्रासंगिक to the ढूंढें क्वैरी.
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense and a 4-3 गठन on रक्षा
In American फ़ुटबॉल, प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह players on the field at one time.
The specific role that a खिलाड़ी takes on the फ़ील्ड is called their position.
Under the modern rules of American football, teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions, कि is टीमों may बदलें कोई क्रमांक of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the ball, जो is trying to स्कोर ), the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the other team from scoring, and to take the ball from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, विभिन्न विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : Airish fowk ) are an ethnic group who originate in आयरलैंड, an द्वीप in northwestern यूरोपीय.
आयरलैंड रै महरूम आबादी लिये around 9,000 years ( according to archaeological studies, see Prehistoric Ireland ).
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed to be descended from groups ऐसे as the nemedians, fomorians, fir bolg, tuatha dé danann और the milesians.
Lebor gabála érenn, a किताब of आयरिश mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants.
The main groups that interacted with the आयरिश in the मध्य आयु शामिल the Picts, Scots, and the Vikings.
Due to this contact, icelanders हैं विख्यात लिये having some Irish descent.
The anglo-norman आक्रमण of the ऊँची मध्य आयु, the अंग्रेज़ी बागानों and the subsequent English rule of the country introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland.
Welsh, picts, bretons, और छोटी पार्टियों of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier times.
There have been अनेक notable आयरिश people throughout history.
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as एक of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय '', followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist Robert Boyle is considered the `` पिता of रसायन ``.
Famous Irish explorers शामिल ब्रेंडन the नाविक, रॉबर्ट McClure, Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean.
By some accounts, the first European child born in North America था आयरिश descent on दोनो पहलू ; और an irishman थी the पहला यूरोपीय to set foot on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of Irish people living in अनेक पश्चिमी देशों, विशेषकर in English-speaking countries.
Historically, emigration has been caused by politics, famine and आर्थिक मुद्दे.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of आयरिश लोगों, primarily in the संयुक्त किंगडम, the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा और आइसलैंड ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Barbados, South Africa, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
The largest number of वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों live in the United States.
The number of people living in ऑस्ट्रेलिया जो हैं of आयरिश descent is उच्चतर, as a प्रतिशत of total population, than that of any other country.
लगभग चालीस प्रतिशत of the उपनिवेश population of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland.
The very पहला निवासियों of Iceland were Irish.
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried into orbit by a Space Shuttle in 1990 और remains in आपरेशन.
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit, Hubble 's four प्रमुख यंत्र observe in the near ultraviolet, visible, and near infrared.
The telescope is named after the astronomer एडविन Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to लो अत्यधिक शार्प बिंब साथ almost no background light.
Hubble 's Deep Field have महरूम कुछ of the सबसे detailed visible-light images ever, allowing a deep view into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics, such as accurately determining the rate of विस्तार of the ब्रह्मांड.
Although not the first स्पेस दूरदर्शी, हबल is एक of the largest और सबसे बहुमुखी, और is खूब ज्ञात as both a vital research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy.
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA, with contributions इससे the यूरोपीय स्पेस एजेंसी, और is संचालित by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी Science Institute.
The HST is one of नासा 's ग्रेट observatories, साथ साथ the कॉम्पटन Gamma Ray Observatory, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
Space telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित as early as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, with a proposed launch in 1983, but the project was beset by technical delays, बजट समस्याएं, and the Challenger disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, वैज्ञानिकों मिला कि the प्रमुख दर्पण था महरूम मैदान incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's capabilities.
the दूरदर्शी थी लौटी to इसके intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993.
Hubble is the only telescope designed to be सर्विस in space by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, और replaced प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी रद्द on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster.
However, after spirited public discussion, NASA administrator माइक griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल servicing mission, completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis.
The दूरदर्शी is अभी अपेक्षित to function until at least 2013.
Its scientific successor, the जेम्स webb स्पेस Telescope ( JWST ), is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later.
anti-inflammatory refers to the प्रॉपर्टी of a पदार्थ or treatment that reduces inflammation.
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing सूजन as opposed to opioids, जिससे affect the central nervous system.
The Tonight Show is a US late-night बात दिखाएँ कि रै aired on NBC since 1954.
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the US and the third longest-running दिखाएँ on एनबीसी बाद मिलें the दबायें और Today.
The Tonight Show was hosted by स्टीव एलन ( 1954–1957 ), जोकर paar ( 1957–1962 ), जॉनी Carson ( 1962–1992 ), Jay Leno ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts भी appeared, विशेषकर दौरान the Paar and Carson eras.
The longest-serving host to date was जॉनी कार्सन, जो hosted the tonight दिखाएँ अभिनीत Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The वर्तमान मेजबान of the दिखाएँ is jay लीनो, जो था previously hosted the show from 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1, 2010.
on अप्रैल 3, 2013, एनबीसी announced Jimmy Fallon would become the new host of The Tonight Show.
The Tonight दिखाएँ साथ jimmy fallon होगा प्रीमियर February 24, 2014, the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
ss एंड्रिया Doria.
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione इटालिया ) घर ported in जेनोआ, इटली, सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके डूब in 1956, when 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral एंड्रिया डोरिया, the जलयान था a सकल register tonnage of 29,100 and a capacity of about 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy and reputation after World War II, एंड्रिया डोरिया थी an प्रतीक of इतालवी नेशनल अभिमान.
Of all Italy 's जहाजों at the समय, एंड्रिया डोरिया थी the largest, तीव्रतम and supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 जून 1951, the जलयान undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953.
On 25 July 1956, while the Andrea Doria was approaching the coast of nantucket, मैसाचुसेट्स, बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क नगर, the eastbound of the स्वीडिश American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea Doria तत्काल प्रारंभ to सूची severely to starboard, which left half of its lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of life, but the efficiency of the ship 's technical design allowed it to रहो afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming.
The good behavior of the crew, improvements in communications and the rapid जवाब of अन्य जहाजों averted a विपत्ति समान in scale to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers और क्रू यहूद बचाया और बच, while 46 people died as a consequence of the collision.
The evacuated लक्ज़री लाइनर capsized and sank the following morning.
This accident remains the worst मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur in संयुक्त राज्य waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
The incident and its aftermath यहूद heavily covered by the news media.
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable, the cause of the collision साथ the स्टॉकहोम और the घाटा of एंड्रिया डोरिया उत्पन्न much interest in the media and many lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the दो शिपिंग कंपनियाँ दौरान hearings तत्काल बाद the disaster, no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published.
Although greater दोष appeared initially to पतन on the इतालवी लाइनर, अधिक हाल discoveries have indicated कि a misreading of रडार on the स्वीडिश जलयान may have initiated the collision course, leading to errors on both ships.
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic passenger vessel to sink पहले वायुयान became the पसन्दीदा विधि of travel.
डायलिसिस tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable membrane tubing made from regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used for diffusion साथ solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त साथ जल only.
Osmosis is when water passes through a semi-permeable परत to reach equilibrium.
Diffusion, on the other hand, allows the movement of अणुओं इससे ऊँची विशेषज्ञता to कम विशेषज्ञता.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable झिल्ली or परत if the molecule is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore.
This usually results साथ the प्रभाव of diffusion through a झिल्ली तभी वाकई affects small molecules, and almost never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is प्रयुक्त in नैदानिक हालातों to ensure a filtered flow of molecules, preventing the flow of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` धोया '' आउट of a समाधान जिससे is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent, usually water, which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away.
in demonstrations of semi-permeable झिल्लियों, a समाधान containing several types of molecules, usually glucose and starch, is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis bag, such as a cellulose membrane with pores, and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band.
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in a संग्राहक of a अलग solution, or water.
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water, salts, monosaccharides, and other small molecules ) tend to move into or आउट of the डायलिसिस थैला in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger molecules ( such as proteins, or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore व्यास हैं retained अंदर the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane, like dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic समाधान ( a समाधान कि रै a उच्चतर solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to पहुँचें संतुलन, जहाँ the solute विशेषज्ञता of प्रत्येक समाधान is in संतुलन.
पारा प्रयोगशाला thermometer
A thermometer ( इससे the यूनानी, thermos, अर्थ `` hot '' और μἐτρον, metron, `` measure '' ) is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles.
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g. the bulb on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें occurs साथ तापमान, प्लस कुछ अर्थात् of converting इस शारीरिक बदलें into a numerical value ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
वहीँ हैं अनेक प्रकार और अनेक uses for thermometers, as detailed below in sections of this article.
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the पहला full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी और the earliest in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.
The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, Merrill De मारिस, ओटो englander, अर्ल hurd, Dick Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb Smith.
David Hand was the supervising director, while William Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, perce pearce, और बेन sharpsteen निर्देशित the फिल्मी 's व्यक्तिगत sequences.
Snow White premiered at the carthay वृत्त थिएटर on दिसम्बर 21, 1937, followed by a देशभर रिलीज on फ़रवरी 4, 1938, and with international earnings of $ 8 million during its initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound film at the time.
The popularity of the फिल्मी रै led to it होने re-released theatrically many times, until its home video release in the 1990s.
Adjusted for महंगाई, it is एक of the top ten performers at the North American box office.
At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt Disney was awarded an मानद ऑस्कर, और the फिल्मी थी मनोनीत लिये बेहतरीन Musical Score.
It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute 's list of the 100 greatest American films, जो भी नामित the फिल्मी as the महानतम अमरीकी एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय in 2008.
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big cultural impact, resulting in a लोकप्रिय थीम पार्क आकर्षण, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
प्रसव, श्रमिक, डिलीवरी, जनम, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the cervix, descent और जनम of the शिशु, और birth of the placenta.
In many cases and with increasing आवृत्ति, प्रसव is हासिल through प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean खण्ड, which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen, rather than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006, और comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With respect to induced labor, more than 22 % of महिलाओं undergo प्रेरण of labour in the United States.
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the भ्रूण और neonate as खूब as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the माँ, और have स्थापित सख्त दिशानिर्देश लिये non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks.
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera and his crew as they undertook challenges, performed स्टंट और traveled the world.
The show ran लिये 5 सीज़न between 2003 and 2005.
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American computer animated action / एडवेंचर कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित by दाउद Bowers and Sam Fell.
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations और ड्रीमवर्क्स एनिमेशन, और is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh Jackman, केट विंसलेट, एंडी serkis, Bill Nighy, Ian McKellen, Shane Richie and Jean Reno.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter Lord, Dick सहनशील, और इयान la frenais, और the पटकथा थी written by Dick Clement, Ian La Frenais, Christopher Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William Davies.
the फिल्मी थी released in us on 3 नवम्बर 2006, और in uk on दिसम्बर 1 2006, and was distributed by Paramount Pictures, except for Switzerland, Spain, and the Netherlands, which were handled by Universal Pictures.
the अटलांटा braves are a professional baseball team based in Atlanta.
The Braves are a member of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग Baseball 's National League.
The Braves have played in टर्नर फ़ील्ड since 1997.
The `` Braves '' name, which was पहला प्रयुक्त in 1912, originates from a term for a Native American warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '', and often referred to as `` America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's खेल होने ब्रॉडकास्ट on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ tbs इससे the 1970s until 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the सबसे कामयाब franchises in बेसबॉल, जीतना प्रभाग शीर्षक an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there were no official division champions ).
the braves जीती the nl वेस्ट 1991–93 और the nl ईस्ट 1995–2005, और returned to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
The Braves advanced to the World Series five टाइम्स in the 1990s, जीतना the शीर्षक in 1995.
Since their debut in the National League in 1876, the मताधिकार रै जीती 16 डिवीजनल शीर्षक, 17 नेशनल लीग pennants, as खूब as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
The Braves are the only MLB मताधिकार to have won the World Series in three different home cities.
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest continuously playing team in प्रमुख उत्तर अमरीकी खेल. ''
There is an argument as to जो is दरअसल पुरानी क्युकी हालांकि the शावक हैं a पूरा ऋतु `` पुरानी '' ( formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire, thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons.
After various name changes ( such as the बोस्टन beaneaters ), the टोली संचालित as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century.
In 1953, the team moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee Braves, followed by the मूव to अटलांटा in 1966.
The team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous for Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's करियर घर चलाएं रिकार्ड in 1974, हालांकि the बहुमत of आरोन 's घर runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee.
His record stood जबतक 2007, जब सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ fielder Barry Bonds broke the record.
The पत्ते of a Beech tree
3D rendering of a μCT scan of a पत्ता टुकड़ा, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A पत्ता is an अंग of a vascular संयंत्र, as पारिभाषित in botanical terms, and in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a द्रव्यमान संज्ञा कि refers to leaves as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a thin, flattened organ borne above ground and specialized लिये photosynthesis, लकिन अनेक प्रकार of पत्ते हैं adapted in तरीके लगभग unrecognisable in those शर्तें : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ), some are not above ground ( such as bulb scales ), and some are without major photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls, spines, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular plants, or even of some lichens, which are not plants at सब ( in the भाव of होने सदस्यों of the किंगडम plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
Furthermore, several structures found in vascular plants look like leaves but are not actually पत्ते ; वे differ इससे पत्ते in उनके structures और origins.
Examples शामिल phyllodes, cladodes, and phylloclades.
Title card for the 1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी rushin ' Ballet.
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of अमरीकी कॉमेडी छोटी films परिचय a समूह of ग़रीब पड़ोस children and their adventures.
निर्मित by कॉमेडी निर्माता एचएएल रोच, the श्रेणी is विख्यात लिये प्रर्दशित children behaving in a relatively natural way, as Roach and original director Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles.
In addition, Our Gang notably put लड़कों, लड़कियों, whites और अश्वेतों साथ in a समूह as बराबरी, कुछ कि `` broke new ground, '' according to film historian Leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never महरूम किया पहले in सिनेमा लकिन has since been repeated after the success of Our Gang.
The पहला उत्पादन at the रोच स्टुडियो in 1922 was a series of silent short subjects.
When रोच बदला वितरकों इससे pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( MGM ) in 1927, and converted the series to sound in 1929, the series took off even further.
Production जारी at the रोच स्टुडियो जबतक 1938, when the series was sold to MGM, who then continued producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our Gang series शामिल a कुल of 220 shorts and one feature film, General Spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang ट्रेडमार्क following उनके खरीदें of the उत्पादन अधिकारों, the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated for television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have since remained in syndication, with periodic new प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो, सहित a 1994 छोटी दुष्टों विशेषता फिल्मी released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from middelburg संबद्ध साथ the आविष्कार of the पहला ऑप्टिकल दूरदर्शी.
janssen is sometimes भी credited for inventing the first truly compound microscope.
However, the origin of the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, बस जैसे the origin of the telescope, is a matter of debate.
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a विशाल freshwater झील in the सिएरा Nevada of the United States.
At a surface elevation of, it is located along the किनारा between कैलिफ़ोर्निया और नेवाडा, west of Carson City.
Lake tahoe is the largest alpine lake in North America.
Its गहराई is, बनाना it the संयुक्त राज्य 's second-deepest ( the deepest is Crater Lake in Oregon, being deeper, at ).
additionally, झील tahoe is listed as the 26th largest lake by volume in the world at.
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a part of the Lake Tahoe Basin with the आधुनिक झील होने तराशा दौरान the बर्फ ages.
It is known for the clarity of its water and the panorama of surrounding kyu on सब sides.
The area surrounding the झील is भी referred to as झील tahoe, or simply Tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a major पर्यटक आकर्षण in दोनो नेवाडा and California.
It is home to a number of ski resorts, summer outdoor मनोरंजन, और पर्यटक attractions.
Snow and skiing are a significant भाग of the क्षेत्रफल 's अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रतिष्ठा.
Mountain and झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण throughout the year.
the नेवाडा पक्ष भी includes large casinos.
Highways provide year-round अभिगम इससे रेनो, Carson City, and Sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh amendment 's प्रमाणन in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
Page 3 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law that increases or decreases the salary of members of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the अगला नियत of शर्तें of दफ्तर लिये प्रतिनिधि.
It is the most हाल amendment to the संयुक्त States Constitution.
It was सुपुर्द to the राज्य लिये अनुसमर्थन in 1789 and was adopted in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous बयान और उत्तेजक कविता attributed to पादरी मार्टिन niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the सुस्ती of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets, group after group.
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was निर्मित ; the सामग्री of the quotation may have महरूम presented differently by Niemöller on different occasions.
This list of islands by area includes all islands in the world greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending अनुक्रम by क्षेत्रफल.
For comparison, महाद्वीपों हैं also shown.
Four तिहाई logo
The Four Thirds system is a मानक निर्मित by ओलम्पस और कोडक लिये डिजिटल single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a मानक कि, साथ डिजिटल कैमरे और lenses available from multiple manufacturers, allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers.
seems to cover the मानक.
Proponents describe it as an खोलें मानक, लकिन कंपनियाँ may only use it under a non-disclosure agreement.
Unlike older slr प्रणालियों, चार तिहाई रै महरूम designed इससे the मैदान up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the पाइंट कि ओलम्पस offers firmware updates for many of them.
Lens design has been tailored to the आवश्यकताएँ of डिजिटल सेंसर, सबसे notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the sensor is significantly smaller than for most DSLRs और इस implies कि lenses, विशेषकर telephoto lenses, can be छोटी.
For example, a Four Thirds लेंस साथ a 300 mm फोकल लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the वही कोण of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more compact.
Thus, the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2, and while this enables longer focal लंबाई लिये वृहद आवर्धन, it करता n't सहायता the manufacture of चौड़ी कोण lenses.
The image sensor format, generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger SLRs and smaller compact cameras, generally gives levels of cost, performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes.
HVAC systems उपयोग वेंटिलेशन एयर नलिकाएं संस्थापित throughout a भवन to सप्लाई conditioned एयर to a room through outlet vents, called diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles.
hvac ( हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort.
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, based on the principles of thermodynamics, द्रव यांत्रिकी, और ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR, or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the नामांकन of hacr-rated सर्किट breakers ).
HVAC is महत्वपूर्ण in the डिज़ाइन of मीडियम to विशाल औद्योगिक और दफ्तर इमारतें ऐसे as skyscrapers और in marine environments such as aquariums, where safe and healthy building conditions are regulated with respect to temperature and humidity, using fresh air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught प्रणाली, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries made by निकोलय lvov, माइकल फैराडे, विलिस वाहक, reuben Trane, James Joule, William Rankine, Sadi Carnot, and many others.
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution, and new methods of modernization, higher दक्षता, और प्रणाली कंट्रोल हैं constantly introduced by कंपनियाँ और आविष्कारक worldwide.
The three central functions of heating, ventilating, और air-conditioning हैं interrelated, especially with the need to provide thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality within reasonable installation, operation, and maintenance costs.
HVAC systems can provide ventilation, reduce air घुसपैठ, और maintain दबाव संबंध between spaces.
The अर्थात् of एयर डिलीवरी and removal from spaces is known as room air distribution.
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for cooling and हीटिंग depends on the exterior जलवायु और आंतरिक निर्दिष्ट conditions.
However before taking up the ऊष्मा लोड गणना, it is जरुरी to ढूँढें भैस एयर आवश्यकताएँ लिये each area in detail, as pressurization is an important consideration.
In modern buildings the design, installation, and कंट्रोल प्रणालियों of ये कृत्यों हैं एकीकृत into एक or अधिक HVAC systems.
For very small buildings, contractors normally क्षमता इंजीनियर और चुनें hvac systems and equipment.
For larger इमारतें, भवन सेवाएं designers और इंजीनियर्स, ऐसे as mechanical, architectural, or building services engineers analyze, design, and specify the HVAC systems, and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits और code-compliance inspections of the संस्थापना are normally required for all sizes of buildings.
The HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise, with roles including operation and maintenance, system design and construction, उपकरण निर्माण और बिक्री, और in शिक्षा और research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment, but regulating and मानकों संगठन ऐसे as hardi, ashrae, smacna, एसीसीए, वर्दी mechanical कोड, अंतरराष्ट्रीय mechanical कोड, और amca have महरूम स्थापित to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement.
Royal Navy कमांडर जेम्स बंध, cmg, rnvr, is a fictional अक्षर created by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the protagonist of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of novels, films, comics and video games.
Fleming wrote twelve बंध novels और दो छोटी स्टोरी संग्रहण पहले उसके मौत, हालांकि the last two books— The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously.
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent, कोड क्रमांक 007, residing in लंदन but active internationally.
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew दौरान उसके सेवा in the नवल प्रज्ञा प्रभाग दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, to जिसको फ्लेमिंग added his own style and a number of his own tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond.
Bond रै a क्रमांक of अक्षर traits जिससे चलाएं throughout the किताबे, सहित an enjoyment of cars, a love of food and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since Fleming 's death in 1964, there have been other authorised लेखक of बंध सामग्री, सहित जॉन गार्डनर, जो लिखा चौदह novels और दो novelizations and Raymond Benson, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and three short stories.
There have also been three authors who लिखा एक किताब प्रत्येक, किंग्सले एमिस ( लिखने as रॉबर्ट markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver.
additionally a श्रेणी of novels based on Bond 's youth— Young Bond —was written by Charlie Higson.
As spin-offs इससे the साहित्यिक works, वहीँ थी a टेलीविज़न अनुकूलन of the first novel, Casino Royale, in which Bond was played as an American agent.
A comic स्ट्रिप श्रेणी भी भागा in the रोज़ Express newspaper.
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ; सात अभिनेताओं have निभाई बंध in these films.
`` Nature Boy '' is a song by ईडन ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy... who wandered very far '' only to learn that `` the greatest thing... was just to love and be loved in वापसी ''.
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a प्रमुख hit और `` प्रकृति लड़के '' रै चूंकि become a पॉप और जैज़ मानक, with dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a state located in the southern प्रदेश of the संयुक्त States of America.
Louisiana is the 31st सबसे extensive और the 25th सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Its capital is baton रूज और largest city is New Orleans.
louisiana is the तभी राज्य in the u.S. साथ राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes, which are local government 's equivalent to counties.
The largest parish by population is East Baton Rouge Parish, and the largest by जमीन क्षेत्रफल is cameron मोहल्ला.
Much of the state 's lands were formed इससे sediment धोया bas the मिसिसिपी नदी, leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp.
These contain a rich southern biota ; typical उदाहरण शामिल पक्षियों ऐसे as ibis and egrets.
There are also many species of tree मेंढक, और मछली ऐसे as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, fire is a natural प्रक्रम in the लैंडस्केप, और रै उत्पादित extensive क्षेत्रों of longleaf pine forest and wet savannas.
These support an exceptionally large क्रमांक of संयंत्र प्रजाति, सहित अनेक प्रजाति of orchids और मांसाहारी plants.
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, multilingual heritage, being so strongly influenced by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच, स्पेनी, देशी American ( Indian ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the American purchase of the territory, the वर्तमान louisiana State had been both a Spanish and French colony.
In जोड, the पैटर्न of विकास शामिल importing numerous African slaves in the 18th century, with many from the same region of West Africa, thus concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil War environment, Anglo-Americans increased the दबाव लिये anglicization, और in 1915, अंग्रेज़ी थी बना the only official language of the state.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for महिलाओं और लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, और आचरण, whereas in अन्य वे may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human rights through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to डालें into विधिक अनुबंध ; और to have वैवाहिक, parental and religious rights.
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe, predict, and शायद बताइये क्यों, a दायरा of phenomena व्यवहार as वे appear to in nature.
the पद `` विधि '' रै विविध उपयोग in अनेक मामले : सन्निकट, सटीक, व्यापक or सीमित theories, in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics, chemistry, biology, geology, astronomy etc. ).
an analogous पद लिये a scientific law is a principle.
वैज्ञानिक विधिs:
summarize a large संग्रहण of तथ्य संकल्पित by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at least stated in a single sentence, so that it can be used to predict the outcome of an प्रयोग, दिए the आरंभिक, boundary, और अन्य शारीरिक शर्तें of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - they are वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान कि प्रयोग have repeatedly सत्यापित ( and never falsified ).
उनके सटीकता करता नहीं बदलें जब नई theories हैं worked आउट, लकिन rather the scope of application, since the equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, they do not have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or identities, and it is सदा संभावित लिये a विधि to be विकल by future observations.
are often quoted as a आधारभूत controlling influence rather than a description of observed facts.
I.e. `` the कानून of गति require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses और postulates, जिससे हैं प्रस्तावित दौरान the scientific process before and during validation by experiment and observation.
These are not laws since they have not been verified to the same उपाधि और may नहीं be fear सामान्य, हालांकि they may lead to the formulation of laws.
A law is a अधिक solidified और औपचारिक बयान, distilled from repeated experiment.
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy, and presents the गहराई to जिससे गणित can describe प्रकृति, वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; वे `` serve उनके purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For example, whether a law `` refers to reality '' is a philosophical समस्या, बल्कि than scientific.
Fundamentally, all scientific laws follow इससे भौतिकी, कानून जिससे occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws.
Often, from mathematically fundamental viewpoints, सार्वभौमिक स्थिरांक emerge इससे scientific laws.
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 November 2006 marked the second major सातवाँ पीढी entertainment प्रणाली to be released.
The system थी released सात दिनों बाद on 17 November in the United States.
Introduction into other world बाज़ार थी विलम्बित by a shortage of diodes लिये उपयोग in the blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी ; the यंत्र थी launched in European and other world markets in the first half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स और grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर from the CBS soap operas The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
वो बना उसके डेब्यू दौरान the episode airing on January 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began making sporadic दिखावे on the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत, बाद resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995.
Following a guest appearance in 2000, bregman लौटे to the यंग और the बेचैन on August 24, 2001, remaining on recurring status.
in 2013, it थी घोषित कि Bregman had been placed on contract.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams, Scott Grainger, Sr., and Michael Baldwin among अनेक अन्य causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly.
लॉरेन is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके long, violent rivalry with Sheila Carter.
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National Basketball संघ ( एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff थी लडे between the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स, champions of the पश्चिमी Conference and defending NBA champions, and the Boston Celtics, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers defeated the सेल्टिक्स, चार खेल to तीन, to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the championship series was played between June 3 and June 17, थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी, और थी देखी by an औसत of 18.1 million people.
The Celtics earned their berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division.
The Lakers जीती the प्रशांत प्रभाग to earn their berth.
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven Eastern सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार, the क्लीवलैंड cavaliers in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन semifinals, and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven Western सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार, the यूटा जैज़ in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन semifinals, and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals.
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format, with the Lakers possessing home-court लाभ as a बदला लिये finishing साथ better regular season record than the Celtics.
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant, Pau Gasol, and Ron Artest brought the Lakers close to विजय in खेल 1.
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's eight three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in the चौथी क्वार्टर helped the लेकर्स जीत खेल 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves, जबकि Paul Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor.
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive Game 6 with 24 अंक contributed by उनके बेंच.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied and won their second consecutive championship by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by लेट योगदान on ठोकर by pau gasol और artest और rebounding.
Bryant was named सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of the Finals for his second consecutive trophy.
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven खेल चूंकि और तभी the चौथी चूंकि the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in.
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( पाँच in मिनियापोलिस, 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the नई यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National हॉकी लीग सात खेल श्रेणी format until 1985.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn when dried, is लगभग in व्यास, अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क, और, जैसे सब drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the ground pepper derived from them, may be वर्णित बस as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता for both its flavour and as a medicine.
Black pepper is the world 's सबसे traded मसाला.
It is one of the most common spices added to यूरोपीय भोजन और its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, नहीं to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the modern world, प्रायः युग्म साथ salt.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows सार्थक गणितीय अभिव्यक्ति धमक EF.
noninvasive हृदय इमेजिंग रै become a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, Ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद अनुमत by cardiac imaging.
As a mathematical term, ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as इकोकार्डियोग्राफी, computed टोमोग्राफी, चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
The prosecutor is the chief विधिक प्रतिनिधि of the अभियोजन in countries with either the common law adversarial system, or the civil law inquisitorial system.
The prosecution is the legal party जिम्मेदार लिये पेश the मामला in a criminal trial against an individual accused of breaking the law.
Strawberry shortcake most commonly means a dessert in the shortcake परिवार of cakes.
Strawberry shortcake may भी refer to:
Strawberry shortcake, a अक्षर और मताधिकार निर्मित by American Greetings
The shortened title of Strawberry on the shortcake, a Japanese romance movie.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd allāh इब्न ʿabd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a धार्मिक, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला prophet sent by God for mankind.
non-muslims लिहाज़ Muhammad as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic आस्था of आदम, नूह, अब्राहम, मूसा, यीशु, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of मक्का, he was orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He बाद worked ज़्यादातर as a merchant, as well as a shepherd, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event मुहम्मद प्रारंभ उपदेश ये revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, और कि he खुद was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly.
To escape persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the शुरूआत of the Islamic calendar, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In मदीना, मुहम्मद संयुक्त the tribes under the Constitution of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes, his followers, who by then had grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely शांतिपूर्ण Conquest of Mecca.
he नष्ट the pagan मूर्तियों in the नगर और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few months after returning to मदीना इससे the विदाई Pilgrimage, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam, and he had united अरब into a सिंगल मुस्लिम religious polity.
The revelations ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the आयतें of the कुरान, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' और around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) हैं भी upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and अन्य नबियों of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
The ग्रेट किताबे ( दूसरी edition )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of किताबे originally प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes.
The series is now in its दूसरी संस्करण और contains 60 volumes.
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be प्रासंगिक to समकालीन मुद्दे, और नहीं तभी महत्वपूर्ण in इसके ऐतिहासिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट ; it जरूर बदला rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors.
Books were not chosen on the basis of जातीय or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness, ऐतिहासिक influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded by JJ Cale in 1976, लकिन भी ज्ञात as a कवर संस्करण अंकित by eric Clapton.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` even for an artist जैसे क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality कार्य, 'cocaine ' बाँधने among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked साथ the जो, led zeppelin और the रोलिंग पत्थरों, उत्पादित the क्लैप्टन रिकॉर्डिंग, which was released on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The live संस्करण of `` कोका '', इससे the बस एक रात्रि album recorded in Tokyo, charted on the Billboard Hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of cale 's गीतों अंकित by क्लैप्टन, सहित `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, bombers and torpedo planes in दो लहरें, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft carriers.
All आठ u.S. नेवी battleships were damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were बाद उठाया, और साथ the बाकी चार repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese भी sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 u.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo storage सुविधाएं, as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked.
Japanese नुकसान यहूद लाइट : 29 वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese नाविक थी captured.
The attack came as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों और led सीधे to the अमरीकी entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following day ( December 8 ), the संयुक्त राज्य घोषित war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, जिससे था महरूम दमदार, disappeared.
clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
subsequent परिचालन by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to declare war on the U.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents for unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing, led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of Bravo 's successful Project Runway, a reality competition लिये फ़ैशन designers.
ऋतु 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a nationwide search earlier in the year, sixteen designers were चुनी as semi-finalists और brought to नई यॉर्क City in June, 2005.
After the first challenge, called `` Road To the रनवे '', चौदह गई on to compete as finalists.
The winning designer, Chloe Dao, received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own line, a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster, a spread in ELLE magazine, और a mentorship साथ the banana गणतंत्र डिज़ाइन टोली.
Winning alongside Dao थी उसके मॉडल, अनुग्रह kelsey, who received the ELLE Magazine spread.
माइकल kors और नीना Garcia returned as judges for the second season.
the चौथी judging सीट घुमाया each week, based on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, फ़ैशन कुर्सी at पार्सन्स the नई School for Design, returned as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx later appeared in Project Runway : All Stars in 2012, where वो समाप्त 7th आउट of 13.
Andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the second season of the सब सितारों संस्करण रखकर 10th आउट of 13.
An example of a heraclius खच्चर
In numismatics, a खच्चर is a सिक्का or पदक minted साथ obverse and reverse designs not normally seen on the same piece.
These can be जानबूझकर or उत्पादित by error.
This type of error is अत्यधिक sought बाद, and examples can fetch steep prices from collectors.
The earliest mules are found among प्राचीन यूनानी और रोमन सिक्के.
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental, the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one that had officially been withdrawn from use, or the work of coiners working साथ मरता चुराया इससे an आधिकारिक मिंट, शायद at a समय जब एक of उन्हें should have been destroyed.
The name derives from the mule, the hybrid offspring of a horse and a गधा, due to ऐसे a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग coins, much as a mule has parents of two different species.
This page documents the tornadoes और बवंडर outbreaks of 2010.
The बहुमत of tornadoes रूप in the u.S., लकिन they can occur almost anywhere under the right conditions.
A lesser number occur outside the U.S., most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern गोलार्ध 's गर्मियाँ ऋतु, लकिन हैं भी ज्ञात in दक्षिण अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, एशिया, और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2010 ( of जिससे at तनिक 1,266 were confirmed ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
elsewhere in the संसार, 11 लोगों यहूद मारे in tornadoes, छह in Argentina, three in the Bahamas, one in Bangladesh, and one in Germany.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period, however such changed after a huge upswing starting in लेट अप्रैल और a व्यस्त लेट वसन्त और गर्मियाँ period.
The autumn months यहूद थोड़ा above average.
A lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं ( nk कोशिकाएं ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं and B cells.
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task automation framework, consisting of a command-line शेल और संबद्ध एनक्रिप्शन भाषा निर्मित on.NET Framework.
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI, enabling प्रशासकों to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on दोनो लोकल और remote Windows systems.
In PowerShell, administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets ), जिससे हैं specialized.neT वर्ग implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in scripts, executables ( which हैं स्टैंडअलोन applications ), or by instantiating regular.NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ).
These work by accessing data in different data stores, like the filesystem or registry, which are made available to the powershell runtime via खिड़कियाँ powershell providers.
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with which the खिड़कियाँ powershell runtime can be अंतःस्थापित अंदर other applications.
These applications can then use Windows powershell कार्यक्षमता to implement निश्चित operations, including those exposed via the graphical interface.
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as powershell cmdlets और प्रदाताओं और implement the आलेखीय management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft SQL Server 2008 also expose their management इंटरफ़ेस via powershell cmdlets.
With powershell, आलेखीय interface-based प्रबन्धन applications on Windows are layered on top of Windows PowerShell.
A PowerShell scripting interface for Windows products is mandated by the आम अभियान्त्रिकी Criteria.
खिड़कियाँ powershell शामिल its own extensive, console-based help, similar to man pages in Unix shells, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews, Dick Van Dyke, David Tomlinson, और glynis जॉन्स, उत्पादित by वॉल्ट Disney, and based on the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers.
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh और डॉन dagradi, साथ गीतों by the शरमन भाइयो.
It was shot at वॉल्ट डिज़्नी studios in Burbank, California.
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film Editing, Original Music Score, Best Song for `` Chim chim cher-ee '' और बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव, और प्राप्त a कुल of 13 nominations.
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as television, कॉमिक किताबे, कॉमिक स्ट्रिप्स, boardgames, वीडियो games, and in some cases, films.
On a television program, for example, the स्टोरी होता unfold over अनेक episodes.
In television, the use of the story arc is much more आम in dramas than in comedies, विशेषकर in soap operas.
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than समाचारपत्र कॉमिक्स, as सबसे वेब कॉमिक्स have पठनीय अभिलेख ऑनलाइन कि a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on.
Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term `` स्टोरी चाप '' थी coined in 1988 in संबंध to the television series Wiseguy, and was quickly adapted for other uses.
अनेक अमरीकी कॉमिक किताब श्रेणी हैं अभी लिखा in चार or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series.
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the कैज़ुअल रीडर than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics.
Black Friday is the day following थैंक्सगिविंग दिन in the संयुक्त राज्य, प्रायः regarded as the beginning of the Christmas shopping season.
In recent years, most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the अवकाश खरीदारी ऋतु, similar to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is not an official public holiday as such, but many non-retail employees and schools have both थैंक्सगिविंग और the दिन बाद बंद, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005, although news reports, which at that time were inaccurate, have वर्णित it as the busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time.
The day 's name originated in फिलाडेल्फिया, जहाँ it originally थी प्रयुक्त to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving.
Use of the term started पहले 1961 और began to देखिए broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered : कि `` ब्लैक शुक्रवार '' indicates the पाइंट at जिससे रिटेलर begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For many years, it थी आम लिये रिटेलर to खोलें at 6:00 a.m., but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This थी लिया to a नई चरम in 2011, जब अनेक रिटेलर ( सहित Target, Kohl 's, Macy 's, Best Buy, and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time.
In 2012, Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where opening on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to blue laws, such as मैसाचुसेट्स जहाँ वे स्टिल खोली around मध्यरात्रि ), prompting काल्स लिये a walkout among कुछ मजदूर.
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting aggressive crowds, with annual reports of assaults, shootings, and throngs of लोगों trampling on अन्य shoppers in an attempt to मिलेंगी the बेहतरीन सौदे on a product before supplies run out.
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie drama लिखा, उत्पादित, और निर्देशित by Tyler Perry.
The पटकथा focuses on दो परिवारों, एक धनवान और the other working class, whose lives are intertwined in both love and business.
the फिल्म is the दूसरी of चार in जिससे पेरी 's हस्ताक्षर character, Madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's Little Girls ) that is not based on any of the फिल्मकार 's स्टेज plays.
Net 10, Net 15, जाल 30 और जाल 60 ( भी जाल 10 दिनों, et al ) हैं फ़ॉर्म of व्यापार क्रेडिट which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the seller within 10, 15, 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed.
Net 30 or Net 60 शर्तें हैं प्रायः coupled साथ a credit for early payment.
The word net in this sense means `` कुल बाद सब छूट. ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण, trim ), और अधिक recently from the French net ( sharp, neat, clean ).
Roadtown, tortola
The British West Indies यहूद the आइलैंड्स in और around the Caribbean that were part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas, Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, Jamaica ( with its dependencies the turks और caicos आइलैंड्स और the केमन आइलैंड्स ), त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो, the windward आइलैंड्स and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands, the Bahamas, British Honduras और अंग्रेजों guiana यहूद संगठित into the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ.
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single स्वदेश, लकिन it था सीमित शक्तियां, अनेक व्यावहारिक समस्याएं, and a lack of popular support.
Consequently, the West Indies संघ थी dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now independent as separate countries, with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States, the Association of Caribbean States, the World Trade Organization, the United Nations, the caribbean जातियाँ, the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र और the caribbean विकास Bank among others.
The शेष हैं अंग्रेजों overseas territories.
All the former nations of the British West Indies, except the राष्ट्रमंडल of डोमिनिकन, गुयाना और त्रिनिदाद and Tobago, are Commonwealth Realms.
The term is still प्रयुक्त लिये अंग्रेजों विदेशी Territories in the Caribbean, such as the Cayman Islands.
The बाकी अंग्रेजों West Indies
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first recorded by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता और Weiss as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The प्रकाशन लिये इस सोंग is नियंत्रित by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
उद्घाटन दिन 2009 on the west steps of the U.S. Capitol.
President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural parade down पेन्सिलवेनिया एवेन्यू to the श्वेत हाउस, 2005
The inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial event marking the शुरुआत of a नई four-year पद of a अध्यक्ष of the United States.
The day a presidential inauguration occurs is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन दिन '' और occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment, the date was March 4, the day of the year on which the Constitution of the United States first took effect in 1789 ; the last inauguration to लो प्लेस on the पुरानी तिथि थी फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट 's पहला एक on कूच 4, 1933. )
The most recent public presidential inauguration ceremony, the swearing in of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा to शुरू his second four-year term in office, took place on Monday, January 21, 2013.
The only inauguration element mandated by the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is कि the अध्यक्ष मेक an शपथ or प्रतिज्ञान पहले that person can `` enter on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency.
However, over the years, various traditions have arisen that have expanded the उद्घाटन इससे a सरल oath-taking रस्म to a day-long इवेंट, सहित parades, speeches, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy Carter, the प्राथमिक उद्घाटन दिन रस्म took प्लेस on the कैपिटल 's ईस्ट Portico.
चूंकि the 1981 उद्घाटन of Ronald Reagan, the ceremony has been held at the Capitol 's West Front.
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 यहूद स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to ठंडा weather.
The War of 1812 and World War II caused two inaugurations to be आयोजित at अन्य स्थितियाँ in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
When George Washington was inaugurated, the oath was administered by Robert Livingston, Chancellor of New York State, in 1789, और by विलियम cushing, संबद्ध इंसाफ of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John Adams, no chief justice has छूटी an उद्घाटन Day.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday, the chief justice has administered the शपथ to the अध्यक्ष on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly.
When a new president takes over mid-term due to the death or resignation of a president, the oath of office is administered but formal, public उद्घाटन कार्यक्रम have नहीं महरूम held.
Stefani जोआन एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच 28, 1986 ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज name Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
Born and raised in New York City, she primarily studied at the Convent of the Sacred Heart and briefly attended नई यॉर्क विश्वविद्यालयों 's tisch स्कूल of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the चट्टान म्यूज़िक झाँकी of मैनहटन 's निम्नतर East Side.
By the end of 2007, record executive and producer विंसेंट हर्बर्ट हस्ताक्षरित उसके to उसके लेबल streamline रिकॉर्ड, an imprint of Interscope Records.
Initially working as a songwriter at interscope रिकॉर्ड, उसके गायन abilities captured the attention of recording artist Akon, who also signed her to Kon Live Distribution, his own label under Interscope.
Lady गागा आए to prominence as a रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार following the रिलीज of उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, the कीर्ति ( 2008 ), जिससे was a critical and commercial success that topped charts around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face ``.
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour, she followed the एल्बम साथ the कीर्ति दानव ( 2009 ), जिससे शाखित the विश्वव्यापी hit singles `` ख़राब रोमांस ``, `` टेलीफोन ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
The Fame राक्षस कामयाबी अनुमत उसके to embark on the eighteen-month long दानव Ball Tour, which later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time.
Her सबसे हाल एल्बम, born इस रास्ता ( 2011 ), अव्वल the चार्ट of most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles, including `` Born This Way ``, `` Judas ``, and `` The Edge of Glory ``.
Influenced by Britney Spears, David Bowie, Michael Jackson, Madonna, and Queen, Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant, diverse और outré योगदान to the म्यूज़िक उद्योग through उसके फ़ैशन, प्रदर्शन और म्यूज़िक videos.
As of October 2011, she has sold an estimated 23 million albums and 64 million singles विश्वव्यापी और उसके singles हैं कुछ of the best-selling worldwide.
Her achievements include five Grammy Awards और 13 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music, is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in US according to RIAA, is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the सबसे influential लोगों in the संसार by समय पत्रिका.
Besides her musical career, she involves herself साथ humanitarian causes and LGBT activism.
mckethan स्टेडियम home of Gator baseball
A चित्र of the 1924 Baseball team
The Florida Gators baseball team represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of फ्लोरिडा in the खेल of baseball.
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA ), and the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the southeastern Conference ( SEC ).
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan स्टेडियम on the विश्वविद्यालयों 's gainesville, Florida campus, and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight ऋतु इतिहास of the gators बेसबॉल कार्यक्रम, the टोली रै won twelve SEC championships and has appeared in eight College World Series tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
For the radiohead सोंग, देखिए OK Computer.
अध्यक्षीय अभियान बटन for Abraham Lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the button shows a पोर्ट्रेट of उसके कार्यशील mate Hannibal Hamlin.
a राजनैतिक अभियान is an व्यवस्थित effort which seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group.
In democracies, राजनैतिक अभियान प्रायः refer to electoral campaigns, wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided.
In modern politics, the most high profile political campaigns are केन्द्रित on उम्मीदवार लिये सिर of राज्य or सिर of सरकारी, प्रायः a अध्यक्ष or Prime Minister.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her बेटी, harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902 ) थी an अमरीकी सोशल activist, abolitionist, and leading figure of the early women 's rights movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, नई यॉर्क, is प्रायः credited साथ initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और महिलाओं 's suffrage आंदोलनों in the United States.
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, वो थी an क्रियाशील abolitionist साथ साथ उसके husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's rights movement, Stanton addressed विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining to women beyond voting rights.
Her चिंताएं शामिल महिलाओं 's parental और कस्टडी अधिकारों, प्रॉपर्टी rights, employment and income rights, divorce, the economic health of the family, and birth control.
She was also an outspoken समर्थक of the 19th-century temperance movement.
After the American Civil War, Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति जब वो, साथ साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी, अस्वीकृत to support ड्योढ़ी of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
She opposed giving added विधिक सुरक्षा और मतदान rights to African American men while women, black and white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond voting rights, led to the formation of two separate महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined, साथ stanton as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त संगठन, लगभग twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's Bible and उसके आत्मकथा, साथ साथ अनेक आलेख और pamphlets concerning मादा suffrage and women 's rights.
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon जार्ज बर्नार्ड शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ किताब और गीत by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
The story concerns eliza doolittle, a काकनी flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit, setting कया थी तब the रिकार्ड लिये the longest चलाएं of any major musical theatre production in history.
It was followed by a hit लंदन उत्पादन, a popular film version, and numerous revivals.
It has been पुकारा `` the पूर्ण musical ''.
deregulation is the अधिनियम or प्रक्रम of निकालना or reducing state regulations.
It is therefore opposite of regulation, जिससे refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating certain activities.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 a.M., 8 f.m. प्लस 2 f.m. अनुवादक ) सीबीएस रेडियो संजाल which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins.
The network 's फ्लैगशिप स्टेशन is wbz-fm /98.5- बोस्टन, Massachusetts.
Dave goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob Beers provides रंग commentary.
इस आलेख is परिचय the short story.
For the poem by Sara teasdale, देखिए There Will Come Soft Rains.
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray Bradbury जिससे थी पहला प्रकाशित in the May 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
Later that वही साल the स्टोरी was included in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 billion people, हान चाइनीज is the largest जातीय group in the world.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region, जिससे sits in an क्षेत्रफल between दक्षिण of the हिन्दू कुश in अफगानिस्तान and the Indus River in Pakistan.
They number around 50 लाख.
The Korowai people of Papua numbered just around 3,000 लोगों, और were uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or जातीय समूह is a socially पारिभाषित category based on common culture or nationality.
Ethnicity can, but does not have to, शामिल आम ancestry, रूप, भोजन, ड्रेसिंग स्टाइल, विरासत, history, language or dialect, religion, symbols, traditions, or other cultural factor.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through आम विशेषताएँ which set the group apart from other groups.
The 19.9 MW gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving कुछ of the सबसे urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, बदलें और वितरित solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ हैं वैश्विक.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The classical Latin वर्णमाला or रोमन वर्णमाला विकसित इससे a पश्चिमी किस्में of the यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the Cumaean alphabet, which was adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further परिवर्धित by the प्राचीन romans to लिखें the लैटिन language.
During the Middle Ages, the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages, सीधा वंशजों of लैटिन, as खूब as to सेल्टिक, germanic, बाल्टिक, और some Slavic languages.
With the age of colonialism and Christian evangelism, the Latin script was spread overseas, and applied to indigenous American, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई, ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई, austroasiatic, और अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं.
More recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) जब transcribing or बनाना लिखा मानकों लिये non-european भाषाएं, ऐसे as the अफ़्रीकी सन्दर्भ वर्णमाला.
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article ), or other alphabets based on the Latin स्क्रिप्ट, जिससे is the मौलिक set of letters common to the various alphabets descended from the classical Latin one, such as the English alphabet.
These latin-derived alphabets may छोड़ें अक्षर, like the Rotokas alphabet, or add new letters, like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet.
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries, सहित the सृष्टि लिये मध्यकालीन लैटिन of निम्नतर मामला forms which did not exist in the Classical period.
The assassination of United States अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln took प्लेस on शुभ शुक्रवार, अप्रैल 14, 1865, as the American Civil War was drawing to a close.
The assassination occurred five days after the कमांडर of the confederate फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया, General Robert E. Lee, surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated, though an unsuccessful attempt था महरूम बना on एंड्रयू जैक्सन 30 years before in 1835.
The हत्या थी नियोजित और carried आउट by the well-known स्टेज कर्ता John Wilkes Booth, as part of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold, who were assigned to kill Secretary of राज्य विलियम H. seward, और जार्ज atzerodt जो थी to मार वाइस अध्यक्ष एंड्रयू Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the top three people in the administration, Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the निरंतरता of the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी.
Lincoln was shot while watching the खेल हमारी अमरीकी cousin साथ उसके बीवी मरियम टॉड Lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in Washington, D.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
He died जल्दी the अगला morning.
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed to wound Seward, while atzerodt, जॉनसन 's would-be हत्यारे, खोया उसके तंत्रिका और fled वॉशिंगटन.
Add-on might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ), a piece of software जिससे enhances another तन्त्र अनुप्रयोग and usually can not be run independently
Browser extension, which modifies the इंटरफ़ेस and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ), a piece of software कि enhances और customizes mozilla-based अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ), the official Mozilla Foundation web साईट जिससे serves as a repository of add-ons लिये mozilla-based applications
Peripheral, an वैकल्पिक कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर घटक कि significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory, a टुकड़ा of हार्डवेयर प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ a video game console for playing video games
Club level seating is a खास खण्ड of seating in आधुनिक sports stadiums.
The Club Level is usually located towards the मध्य of the स्टेज of seating भाग, ऊपर the lower deck but below the upper deck.
They are प्रायः सही अगला to the लक्ज़री बाक्स, either right above, right below, or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes.
Club Level seating is considered as higher class than sitting anywhere else in the एरिना, लकिन निम्नतर क्लास compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the Luxury बाक्स, सबसे क्लबों स्तर do not wrap entirely around the arena.
Some क्लबों स्तर रोकें at a निश्चित पाइंट, giving रास्ता to an विस्तार of the Mezzanine, while others give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable exception to this is Emirates Stadium in London, which has a complete tier of club seating.
Club Levels allow प्रशंसक अनेक स्तर of entertainment.
Club Level seating is open to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed लक्ज़री बाक्स, जिससे देता अधिक of an बाहरी impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas.
Club Level seating is normally bought on a contract basis to allow लिये अधिकतम profit on the part of the stadium.
The Club Level provides प्रशंसक साथ खास अभिगम to an अंदर भाग of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special रेस्तरां, merchandise स्टैंड, और लाउंज areas of the stadium that are not otherwise available.
Concession stands and vendors on the Club Level also often offer different menus than in other stands to दे अधिक of a खास महसूस to the Club.
These क्षेत्रों हैं बंद बंद to the बाकी of the स्टेडियम, and they usually can only be accessed through the exclusive, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 सितंबर 1934 ) is an इतालवी अभिनेत्री.
Loren is widely recognized as Italy 's most प्रसिद्ध और सम्मानित अभिनेत्री.
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये a non-english-speaking प्रदर्शन, for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women.
Her other awards include a Grammy Award, five खास सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a bafta पुरस्कार और a Laurel Award.
In 1995 she प्राप्त the सेसिल B. demille पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ, one of many such awards.
Her films include : houseboat ( 1958 ), el सीआईडी ( 1961 ), कल, Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ), Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ), and A Special Day ( 1977 ).
In later years she has appeared in American blockbusters such as grumpier बूढ़ा मेन ( 1995 ), और नौ ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman 's Prêt-à-Porter, which अर्जित उसके a सुनहरी ग्लोब nomination the same year.
She has also achieved critical and commercial कामयाबी in tv फिल्मों ऐसे as हिम्मत ( 1986 ).
Deaths for self-inflicted चोटों प्रति 100,000 निवासियों in 2004.
incidence of आत्महत्या is underreported due to both religious and social pressures, and possibly completely unreported in some areas.
Nevertheless, from reported cases, निश्चित रुझान हैं apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing आत्महत्या दरों between राष्ट्र is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves हैं नहीं the कारण, लकिन may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South Africa is a female boarding school founded in जनवरी 2007 और स्तिथ in henley on klip निकट meyerton, south of Johannesburg, South Africa.
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing शैक्षणिक और नेतृत्व अवसर लिये academically gifted लड़कियों इससे impoverished पृष्ठभूमि.
Oprah विनफ्रे नेतृत्व Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network प्रदाता ऑपरेटिंग in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the Caribbean, Central America, and Oceania regions.
The company is owned by Irishman Denis O'Brien, is incorporated in बरमूडा, और आधारित in Jamaica.
It has about 13 लाख बेतार उपयोक्ता.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, El Salvador, Fiji, French Guiana, Grenada, guadeloupe, गुयाना, हैती, जमैका, मार्टीनिक, प्रकृति, पनामा, पापुआ नई गिनी, समोआ, संत किट्स और नेविस, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, सूरीनाम, टोंगा, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
इस is a सूची of records of the FIFA World Cup and its qualification matches.
Hospital Emergency Codes are प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल विश्वव्यापी to चेतावनी staff to various emergencies.
The use of कोड is intended to convey अनिवार्य information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to staff, while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital.
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or printed on कर्मचारी पहचान बैज लिये ready reference.
Back of a हॉस्पिटल id बैज showing disaster codes.
Hospital emergency कोड may denote अलग कार्यक्रम at अलग अस्पताल, including nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at more than one सुविधा, इस may सीसे to भ्रम in emergencies, so uniform systems have been proposed.
The route of the Eifel aqueduct, with इसके औसत ढलान.
The Eifel जलसेतु थी एक of the longest aqueducts of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
The aqueduct, constructed in AD 80, carried water some from the hilly Eifel region of what is now Germany to the प्राचीन नगर of colonia claudia आरा agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spurs to अतिरिक्त स्रोतों हैं शामिल, the length was.
The construction was almost entirely नीचे मैदान, और the प्रवाह of the जल was produced entirely by gravity.
a few पुलों, सहित एक up to in length, were needed to pass over valleys.
Unlike some of the other famous रोमन aqueducts, the eifel जलसेतु was specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( br.e. disulphide बंध ) is a covalent बंध, usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups.
The linkage is also called an ss-bond or disulfide सेतु.
The overall कनेक्टिविटी is therefore R-S-S-R.
The terminology is widely प्रयुक्त in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the connection is a persulfide, in analogy to इसके congener, परऑक्साइड ( r-o-o-r ), लकिन इस शब्दावली is अस्पष्ट और is no longer प्रयुक्त ( मगर in सन्दर्भ to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
औपचारिक चित्रण of disulfide bond formation as an oxidation.
Westminster ऐबी is प्रयुक्त लिये the राजतिलक of British monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it, रै महरूम वर्चस्व, लिये over 1,400 years, by various forms of Christianity.
According to some surveys, a majority of citizens still पहचानो साथ christianity, हालांकि नियमित गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति रै गिरे dramatically चूंकि the middle of the 20th century, and immigration and demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are recorded by regular surveys, the four major ones being the UK Census, the श्रमिक फ़ोर्स सर्वेक्षण, the अंग्रेजों सोशल attitudes सर्वेक्षण और the यूरोपीय सोशल Survey.
according to the 2001 uk जनसांख्यिकी, christianity is the major religion, followed by Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious affiliations has led commentators to variously describe the United किंगडम as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-christian society.
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707, and consequently most of the largest धार्मिक समूह do नहीं have UK-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures लिये the व्यक्तिगत देशों of the संयुक्त Kingdom, others may have a single structure covering England and Wales or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the अपेक्षाकृत हाल सृष्टि of उत्तरी Ireland in 1921, most major religious groups in Northern Ireland are organised on an all-Ireland basis.
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark, New जर्सी between जुलाई 12 और July 17, 1967.
The six days of rioting, लूटने, और विनाश left 26 dead and hundreds injured.
In United States college athletics, redshirt is a delay or suspension of an खिलाड़ी 's भागीदारी in अनुक्रम to lengthen उसके or उसके काल of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons, a number derived from the four सालो of अकादमिक वर्ग कि हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university.
However, a student athlete may be offered the opportunity to redshirt for up to two years, which allows the खिलाड़ी to स्प्रेड those चार सालो of पात्रता over five, or sometimes six years.
In a redshirt year, a student athlete may attend वर्ग at the कॉलेज or university, practice with an athletic team, and dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game.
Using this mechanism, a student athlete has up to five academic years to use the चार सालो of पात्रता, thus becoming a fifth-year senior.
The term is used as a क्रिया, noun, and adjective.
For example, a coach may choose to redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is तब referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
The विपरीत of इस is a `` true freshman. ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the पहला संसार युद्ध or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
अधिक than 9 लाख combatants यहूद मारे, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला little until 1917.
On the पूर्वी सामने, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble साथ क्रांतिकारियों, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to World War II.
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states under the marxist–leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - that is to say, `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period चिह्नित the महानतम territorial extent of Communist states.
A communist state is a state where the means of उत्पादन हैं collectively स्वामित्व by the society.
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party नियम of a कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी ( referred as तानाशाही of the proletariat by इसके proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a कम्युनिस्ट समाज as पारिभाषित by दोनो Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this perspective, the term marxist-leninist राज्य is अधिक उचित.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of सब or सबसे अर्थात् of उत्पादन by the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी -run राज्य is deemed जरुरी to further the रूचि of the working class ; today, a communist state can also, for instance, refer to contemporary China and Vietnam, where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy.
According to Marxist–Leninists, the state is a औजार in the हैंड्स of the सत्ताधारी क्लास, जिससे in a समाजवादी समाज is the working क्लास, so a socialist state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
In practice, कम्युनिस्ट राज्य do नहीं actually refer to themselves as such.
They do this not to disguise the fact that the ruling party is communist, but बल्कि क्युकी वे do नहीं consider themselves to be a कम्युनिस्ट society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally पहचानो themselves as socialist states or workers ' states.
The primary goal of these राज्य, जिससे भी explains उनके आधिकारिक नाम, is to मार्गदर्शिका उनके संबंधित countries in the process of building socialism, ultimately leading to communism.
Communist states may have several legal political parties, but the communist party is प्रायः granted a खास or प्रबल भूमिका in सरकारी, प्रायः by statute or under the constitution.
नतीजतन, the संस्थानों of the राज्य और of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी become intimately entwined, such as in the development of parallel institutions.
In the 20th century, most कम्युनिस्ट राज्य अपनाया planned economies.
However, there यहूद अपवाद : the सोवियत संघ दौरान the 1920s और लेट 1980s और यूगोस्लाविया बाद World War II allowed limited markets and a degree of worker self-management, while China, Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st century, China and वियतनाम have अनुमत a mixed economy to develop.
The fundamental concepts of communist states often diverge इससे the असली socio-economic विचारधाराओं from which they develop.
As a परिणाम, अनेक adherents of ये विचारधाराओं प्रायः oppose the political systems commonly associated with these states.
For example, dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist राज्य of the 20th सदी, claiming either कि वे था nothing to do साथ `` रियल '' साम्यवादी or कि the विचारधारा of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption.
Michael फ्रेड फेल्प्स ii ( born जून 30, 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of all time, with a total of 22 medals.
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18, double the second highest record holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ), और ओलम्पिक medals in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, फेल्प्स took the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे first-place finishes at any single Olympic Games.
Five of those victories were in individual events, tying the सिंगल Games record.
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Phelps won four golds and two चांदी medals, बनाना उसे the सबसे कामयाब खिलाड़ी of the खेल लिये the तीसरा ओलंपिक in a row.
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter तितली, 200-meter तितली और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley.
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition, 57 gold, 11 silver, and तीन कांस्य spanning the ओलंपिक, the संसार, और the पण प्रशांत championships.
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking प्रदर्शन have अर्जित उसे the संसार तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार सात टाइम्स और अमरीकी तैराक of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 earned फेल्प्स खेल illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award.
After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation, which focuses on growing the खेल of तैराकी और promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with his न्यास बाद the 2012 ओलंपिक, which he has said will be his last.
Lenovo Group सीमित ( ) is a चाइनीज बहुराष्ट्रीय कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स company with its headquarters in Beijing, China and Morrisville, North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong, China.
Its products include personal कंप्यूटर, टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, सर्वर, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक storage devices, IT management software and smart televisions.
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest PC vendor by 2012 ईकाई बिक्री.
It markets the थिंकपैड लकीर of कोपी कंप्यूटर और the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
Lenovo has operations in more than 60 देशों और बिकता इसके products in around 160 countries.
लेनोवो थी संस्थापित in बीजिंग in 1984 और incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name, Legend.
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the हैंग सेंग china-affiliated corporations अनुक्रमणिका.
Slug is a common name for an apparently shell-less स्थलीय gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that has no शेल, रै a बहुत घटाया शेल, or रै तभी a small internal shell.
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail ``, which is applied to gastropods that have a नतीजे शेल कि is विशाल पर्याप्त कि the नरम भाग of the एनिमल can retract fully into it. )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea, and there is भी एक genus of freshwater slugs, Acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however लागू primarily to जमीन slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods साथ a शेल कि is नहीं काफी vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( like many in the family Urocyclidae ), are known as semislugs.
The various taxonomic परिवारों of slugs रूप भाग of अनेक काफी different evolutionary lineages which also include snails.
Thus, for example, the various families of land slugs are not very closely related to एक another, despite a सतही समानता in the overall body form.
The shell-less condition has arisen many times independently दौरान the विकासवादी पास्ट, और thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, like all other gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° टेढ़ी of the internal organs ) during development.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation, but externally the bodies of land slugs appear to be more or less सममित, मगर लिये the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the right hand side.
The नरम, slimy लाशें of slugs हैं prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and must retreat to damp hiding places when the weather is dry.
The subsequent information in this article applies to जमीन slugs.
is a Latin word that अर्थात् `` यूँ '' or, in लिखने, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
Sic may भी refer to:
Sic, cluj, a कम्यून in Romania
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय कोड for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], stage name of जेनिफर मॉरिस, a कनाडाई noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड Slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic, the आरंभिक of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
sic, सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking tools
sic ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial Classification a un प्रणाली लिये आर्थिक activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स Council
the Swiss Interbank clearing प्रणाली
San Isidro Club, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union club
खड़ा निर्वचन कमेटी, a कमेटी समर्पित to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the फ़ील्ड of आंकडे
Second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of विमानन
Sistema interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न चैनल in पुर्तगाल
Sea आइल नगर, नई जर्सी, a coastal town in the United States
Segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर mode, a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
शंघाई अंतरराष्ट्रीय Circuit, a motor racing venue in Shanghai, China
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक computer, a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern इलिनोइस कॉलेज, a दो साल जूनियर कॉलेज in Harrisburg, Illinois, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to SIC, which is more commonly ज्ञात as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a जेसुइट स्कूल in Sydney, Australia
Imperial मानक of नेपोलियन I
Napoleon Bonaparte (, ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति और इसके associated wars in Europe.
As Napoleon I, he was Emperor of the फ्रेंच इससे 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the napoleonic कोड, रै महरूम a प्रमुख influence on अनेक सिविल विधि jurisdictions worldwide, but he is best remembered for his role in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions, the so-called Napoleonic Wars.
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe and sought to spread the ideals of the French क्रान्ति, जबकि consolidating an इम्पीरियल साम्राज्य जिससे लौटी aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to his success in these wars, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as one of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों of सब समय, और उसके अभियान are studied at military academies worldwide.
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble इतालवी ancestry जिससे था settled Corsica in the 16th century.
He trained as an तोपखाने अधिकारी in mainland France.
He rose to prominence under the French पहला गणतंत्र और led कामयाब अभियान विरूद्ध the पहला और दूसरी Coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a कामयाब आक्रमण of the Italian peninsula.
In 1799, he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First Consul ; five years later the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed उसे सम्राट, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first decade of the 19th century, the French Empire under Napoleon engaged in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every प्रमुख यूरोपीय power.
After a streak of victories, France secured a dominant position in continental Europe, and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the formation of extensive alliances और the नियुक्ति of मित्रों और परिवार सदस्यों to नियम अन्य यूरोपीय देशों as फ्रेंच client states.
The प्रायद्वीपीय युद्ध और 1812 फ्रेंच आक्रमण of Russia marked turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes.
His Grande Armée थी badly क्षतिग्रस्त in the अभियान and never fully recovered.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following साल the गठबन्धन invaded फ़्रांस, मजबूर नेपोलियन to abdicate और exiled him to the island of Elba.
Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and लौटे to शक्ति, लकिन थी पराजित at the बैटल of वाटरलू in June 1815.
Napoleon spent the last six years of his जीवन in कारावास by the अंग्रेजों on the island of Saint Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer, but there has महरूम कुछ बहस परिचय the कारण of उसके मौत, as कुछ विद्वानों have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning.
इस is a कालानुक्रमिक listing of the United States Senators from Pennsylvania.
United States सीनेटरों हैं popularly निर्वाचित, for a six-year term, beginning January 3.
Elections are आयोजित the पहला मंगलवार after November 1.
Before 1914, they यहूद चुनी by the पेन्सिलवेनिया सामान्य सभा, और पहले 1935, their terms began March 4.
The South Africa नेशनल रग्बी संघ टोली ( ज्ञात as the springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union.
They compete in the सालाना रग्बी चैंपियनशिप, along with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and New Zealand.
They have won this championship on तीन अवसरों in सोलह सालो.
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International रग्बी फलक, और यहूद नामित 2008 संसार टोली of the साल at the Laureus World Sports Awards.
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition, the Springboks did not compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 और 1991 क्युकी of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
The team made its संसार कप डेब्यू in 1995, when the newly democratic South Africa hosted the tournament.
The Springboks then पराजित the सब अश्वेतों 15–12 in the फाइनल, जिससे is now remembered as one of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history, and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process.
South Africa regained their title as champions 12 years later, when वे पराजित इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the 2007 फाइनल.
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to first place in the IRB World Rankings, a स्थिति वे आयोजित जबतक जुलाई the following साल जब नई जीलैंड regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in green and सुनहरा jerseys, और उनके प्रतीक हैं the Springbok and the Protea.
The side has been playing international rugby since 1891, when a British Isles side toured the स्वदेश, playing दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी in उनके पहला परीक्षण on 30 July.
South Africa was coached by Jake White, who led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title, announcing उसके इस्तीफा effectively from the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011, following a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी संसार कप quarter-final, who then stated he would not be signing a new deal.
The previous captain was John Smit, who before he retired in 2011 निभाई वेश्या लिये सबसे of उसके करियर, हालांकि he रै भी महरूम a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to Smit being अनुपलब्ध लिये the नवम्बर 2010 Tests after surgery, lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour.
The current कप्तान is जां de Villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), was fought July 1–3, 1863, in और around the कस्बा of gettysburg, पेन्सिलवेनिया.
It was the battle with the largest क्रमांक of हताहत in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और is प्रायः वर्णित as the war 's turning point.
Union Maj. Gen. जार्ज गॉर्डन meade 's फौज of the potomac पराजित हमले by confederate gen. रॉबर्ट E. ली 's Army of Northern Virginia, ending Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his कामयाबी at chancellorsville in वर्जिनिया in may 1863, ली led his army through the Shenandoah Valley to begin his second invasion of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign.
With his army in high spirits, Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged उत्तरी वर्जिनिया और hoped to influence उत्तरी राजनेता to दे up उनके अभियोजन of the युद्ध by penetrating as far as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or even Philadelphia.
Prodded by President Abraham lincoln, maj. gen. जोसेफ वेश्या स्थानांतरित his army in pursuit, but was relieved just three days before the battle and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as ली तत्काल concentrated उसके शक्तियां वहीँ, उसके उद्देश्य being to engage the Union army and destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union cavalry division अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जॉन buford, और जल्द reinforced साथ दो corps of संघ infantry.
However, two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north, collapsing the hastily developed Union lines, sending the defenders retreating through the गलियों of town to the hills just to the south.
On the दूसरी दिन of बैटल, most of both armies had assembled.
The Union line was laid out in a defensive formation resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of July 2, Lee launched a heavy उत्पीड़न on the संघ बाएँ पार्श्व, और fierce लड़ raged at छोटी गोलाकार शीर्ष, the wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
On the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill.
All across the battlefield, despite significant नुकसान, the संघ defenders held their lines.
On the third day of battle, July 3, fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill, and cavalry battles raged to the east and south, but the प्रमुख इवेंट थी a नाटकीय infantry उत्पीड़न by 12,500 confederates विरूद्ध the बीच of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett 's Charge.
The charge was repulsed by Union राइफल और तोपखाने आग, at ग्रेट losses to the Confederate army.
Lee led उसके फौज on a torturous retreat back to Virginia.
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from both armies were हताहत in the three-day battle.
That November, President Lincoln used the dedication ceremony for the gettysburg नेशनल कब्रिस्तान to सम्मान the गिरे संघ सैनिको and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address.
An academic अनुशासन, or फ़ील्ड of पढ़ाई, is a शाखा of knowledge that is taught and researched at the college or university level.
Disciplines are पारिभाषित ( in भाग ), और पहचाना by the अकादमिक जर्नल्स in जिससे शोध is published, and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong.
However, there exists no formal मापदण्ड लिये जब शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम और scholarly journals form an academic discipline.
A huge difference exists between, on the one hand, खूब स्थापित disciplines कि मौजूद in लगभग सब विश्वविद्यालयों सब over the world, have a long history, and have a well established set of journals and conferences, and, on the other hand, suggestions for new fields supported only by few universities and publications.
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches, and the distinguishing lines between these हैं प्रायः दोनो मनमानी और अस्पष्ट.
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also प्रयुक्त as a general-purpose प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा.
PHP is now installed on more than 244 million वेबसाइटों और 2.1 लाख वेब servers.
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference implementation of PHP is अभी उत्पादित by the पीएचपी समूह.
While PHP originally stood लिये निजी घर पेज, it अभी स्टैंड लिये पीएचपी : हाइपरटेक्स्ट Preprocessor, a recursive acronym.
PHP code is interpreted by a वेब सर्वर साथ a पीएचपी प्रोसेसर module which generates the resulting web page : PHP commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data.
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface काबिलियत और can be प्रयुक्त in स्टैंडअलोन graphical applications.
PHP is free software released under the PHP अनुज्ञा, जिससे is असंगत साथ the ग्नू सामान्य पब्लिक अनुज्ञा ( जीपीएल ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP.
PHP can be deployed on most web सर्वर और भी as a स्टैंडअलोन शेल on लगभग प्रत्येक ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional ज़िला in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he परोसा in the u.S. सीनेट from 1953 until 1960.
कैनेडी पराजित वाइस अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर Roosevelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the only non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the भवन of the बर्लिन वॉल, the स्पेस रेस, the african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति, और early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of military advisers, खास आपरेशन शक्तियां, और helicopters in an प्रयत्न to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, and segregation of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in डलास, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days बाद, पहले a विचारण could लो place.
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded कि Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United राज्य हाउस चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded ओसवाल्ड acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s सूचना concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात, विशेषकर since the 1990s.
Although initially kept रहस्य इससे the सामान्य पब्लिक, रिपोर्ट्स of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in public राय दरजा of u.S. presidents.
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. किंग और लिखा by किंग, जेरी leiber, और माइक stoller, प्रेरित by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
वहीँ have महरूम over 400 recorded versions of the song.
A political कार्टून इससे an 1894 पक पत्रिका by इलस्ट्रेटर s.d. ehrhart, shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a tornado of political change.
A metaphor is a figure of speech that describes a विषय by asserting कि it is, on कुछ point of comparison, the same as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical आंकड़े of वाक कि achieve their effects via association, comparison or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
In simpler terms, a metaphor compares दो वस्तुएँ or बाते बगैर using the words `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is the All the world 's a स्टेज monologue इससे as तुम Like It :
सब the world 's a stage,
And all the men and महिलाओं merely खिलाड़ी ;
They have उनके exits और उनके entrances ; — William Shakespeare, As You Like It, 2/7
This quote is a metaphor because the संसार is नहीं वस्तुतः a स्टेज.
By figuratively asserting कि the संसार is a स्टेज, शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक of तुलना between the संसार और a stage to convey an understanding about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it.
माउंट फुजी, इससे the Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji, color woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
फ्रांसिस्को गोया, वहीँ is no एक to सहायता उन्हें, Disasters of War series, aquatint c.1810
Felix vallotton, la raison probante ( the cogent कारण ), woodcut from the series Intimités, 1898
printmaking is the प्रक्रम of making artworks by printing, normally on paper.
printmaking सामान्यतः कवर तभी the प्रक्रम of बनाना prints with an element of originality, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting.
Except in the मामला of monotyping, the प्रक्रम is सक्षम of producing multiples of the same piece, which is called a print.
Each print produced is not माना a `` नक़ल '' लकिन बल्कि is माना an `` original ''.
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking प्रक्रम, और भी क्युकी the imagery of a छपाई is typically नहीं बस a जनन of another work but rather is often a unique image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
A print may be known as an छाप.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen only for its ability to produce multiple impressions, but rather for the unique qualities कि प्रत्येक of the printmaking प्रक्रियाओं lends itself to.
Prints are created by transferring ink इससे a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared स्क्रीन to a sheet of paper or other material.
आम प्रकार of matrices शामिल : मेटल प्लेटों, प्रायः तांबे or जस्ता, or पॉलिमर plates for engraving or etching ; stone, aluminum, or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics are प्रयुक्त लिये the screenprinting process.
Other types of matrix substrates और सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं हैं discussed below.
Multiple impressions printed from the वही मेट्रिक्स रूप an edition.
Since the late 19th century, artists have generally signed व्यक्तिगत impressions इससे an संस्करण और प्रायः क्रमांक the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may also be printed in book form, ऐसे as illustrated किताबे or artist 's books.
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop गायन समूह निर्मित by music manager, executive, and reality TV star Simon Cowell.
Formed in the United Kingdom, they are also signed to cowell 's रिकार्ड लेबल, Syco Music.
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French pop सिंगर सेबेस्तियन izambard, स्पेनी baritone कार्लोस marín, अमरीकी tenor David Miller, and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, they have sold more than 26 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
Su-15, one of the प्रिंसिपल सोवियत एयर रक्षा interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to prevent मिशन of दुश्मन वायुयान, विशेषकर बमवर्षक और reconnaissance aircraft, and destroy them, relying usually on great speed and powerful armament.
Being used since the First World War, after the late 1960s, interceptors became कम महत्वपूर्ण due to shifting इससे बमवर्षक to इंटरकांटिनेंटल ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare.
A Vietnamese अमरीकी ( ) is an अमरीकी of Vietnamese descent.
They make up about half of all विदेशी वियतनामी ( người việt hải ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group.
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the संयुक्त राज्य प्रारंभ after 1975, after the end of the Vietnam War.
जल्दी आप्रवासियों यहूद शरणार्थी नाव people fleeing persecution or poverty.
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust into poor urban neighborhoods, these newcomers have nevertheless managed to स्थापित दमदार समुदायों in a छोटी राशि of समय.
More than sixty percent of वियतनामी अमेरिकी reside in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, टेक्सास, वॉशिंगटन, Florida, and Virginia.
Front page of the U.S. Armed शक्तियां समाचारपत्र, सितारों और धारियाँ, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide by gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in his Führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife एवा ( née braun ) वचनबद्ध suicide with him by ingesting cyanide.
That afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions, their remains were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit, doused in पेट्रोल और नियत alight in the reich chancellery garden outside the bunker.
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains यहूद बरामद और interred in successive स्थितियाँ जबतक 1970 जब वे यहूद again exhumed, cremated and the ashes scattered.
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, जबकि biting down on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary historians have rejected ये खाते as होने either सोवियत प्रचार or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed लक्षण of having been shot through the mouth, but this has been proven unlikely.
There is also विवाद regarding the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments which were recovered.
In 2009, DNA परीक्षण यहूद performed on a कपाल सोवियत officials था long believed to be Hitler 's.
The tests revealed that the skull was actually कि of a स्त्री कम than 40 years old.
स्थान of मिसौरी
The alcohol कानून of मिसौरी हैं among the तनिक प्रतिबंधक and most lax and permissive in the United States.
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for its largely laissez-faire approach to दारू विनियमन, in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू laws of some of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome, is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous ऊतकों, easily spreading आरपार the fascial प्लेन भीतर the subcutaneous tissue.
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having greater risk of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes, cancer, etc.
It is a severe बीमारी of अचानक onset और is प्रायः treated तत्काल with high doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type i describes a polymicrobial संक्रमण, whereas प्रकार ii describes a monomicrobial infection.
Many types of जीवाणु can कारण necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., समूह a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
Such infections are more likely to occur in लोगों साथ compromised immune systems.
Historically, समूह a streptococcus made up most cases of Type II infections.
However, since as early as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing आवृत्ति, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF, though the evidence of the link was said to be weak because of a छोटी क्रमांक of मामला मरीजों और it थी unclear whether the दवाएँ बस नकाबपोश the लक्षण of a द्वितीयक संक्रमण or यहूद a कारण per se.
World युद्ध ii ( wwii or ww2 ), भी ज्ञात as the दूसरी World War, was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945.
It involved the vast majority of the world 's nations —including all of the great powers —eventually forming दो opposing सैन्य alliances : the Allies and the Axis.
It was the most widespread war in इतिहास, साथ अधिक than 100 लाख people serving in military units from over 30 different countries.
In a state of `` कुल युद्ध ``, the प्रमुख भागीदार लगाई उनके संपूर्ण आर्थिक, औद्योगिक, and scientific capabilities at the service of the war effort, erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources.
Marked by mass मौतों of नागरिकों, सहित the holocaust और the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These deaths make World War II by far the deadliest विरोध in इंसान इतिहास.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate ईस्ट एशिया और थी already at युद्ध साथ the गणतंत्र of चीन in 1937, लकिन the संसार war is generally said to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain.
From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns और treaties, जर्मनी formed the अक्ष गठबंधन साथ Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, जर्मनी और the सोवियत संघ partitioned और annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
The संयुक्त किंगडम और the अन्य सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल यहूद the तभी major Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis, with battles taking place in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest जमीन थिएटर of युद्ध in इतिहास, जिससे tied bas the प्रमुख भाग of the अक्ष ' military forces for the rest of the war.
In December 1941, जापानी joined the अक्ष, attacked the United States and European territories in the Pacific Ocean, and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, after जापानी खोया a श्रेणी of नवल लड़ाइयों और यूरोपीय Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and, decisively, at Stalingrad.
in 1943, साथ a श्रेणी of जर्मनी defeats in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, the अलाइड आक्रमण of Italy, and American victories in the Pacific, the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts.
In 1944, the Western Allies invaded France, while the Soviet Union regained all of इसके territorial नुकसान और invaded जर्मनी और its allies.
During 1944 and 1945 the United States defeated the जापानी नेवी और captured कुंजी पश्चिमी Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by Soviet and Polish troops और the subsequent जर्मनी unconditional आत्मसमर्पण on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 जुलाई 1945, the संयुक्त राज्य dropped परमाणु बम on the जापानी शहरों of Hiroshima on 6 August, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago निकट, और the सोवियत संघ having घोषित युद्ध on जापानी by आक्रमणकारी मंचूरिया, Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945, ending the war in Asia and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis.
संसार युद्ध ii altered the political alignment and social structure of the world.
The United Nations ( UN ) was स्थापित to फोस्टर अंतरराष्ट्रीय सहयोग and prevent future conflicts.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the संयुक्त राज्य, the सोवियत संघ, चीन, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और france—became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as प्रतिद्वंद्वी superpowers, सेटिंग the स्टेज लिये the ठंडा War, which lasted for the next 46 years.
meanwhile, the influence of यूरोपीय ग्रेट शक्तियां प्रारंभ to decline, while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began.
Most countries whose industries था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त स्थानांतरित towards economic recovery.
Political integration, विशेषकर in यूरोपीय, उभरा as an प्रयत्न to stabilise postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold War.
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is a लचीली रूप of एंटरप्राइज़ that blends elements of partnership and corporate structures.
Note than an LLC is not a corporation, और कॉलिंग an llc a निगम is technically incorrect.
An LLC is a legal form of company that provides limited liability to its owners in the विशाल बहुमत of संयुक्त राज्य jurisdictions.
LLCs do नहीं need to be organized for profit.
पाँच k-cups
The inside of a used K-Cup, with the top foil और the प्रयुक्त कॉफी grounds removed.
This shows the filter inside the k-cup.
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other single cup brewing प्रणालियों to brew a cup of coffee, tea, or hot chocolate.
प्रत्येक k-cup is a प्लास्टिक container with a coffee filter inside.
Ground coffee beans are packed in the k-cup और sealed air-tight with a combination plastic and foil lid.
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup और शक्तियां hot जल अंतर्गत दबाव through the k-cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans, Timothy 's World कॉफी, वैन houtte, हिरण कॉफी, celestial seasonings, bigelow चाय Company, Twinings, Tully 's, Coffee People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त in सितंबर 2012.
Keurig holds at तनिक एक अतिरिक्त, still-active us पेटेंट और another पेटेंट application, detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design.
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet देखें कम्पनी in la chaux-de-fonds, Switzerland.
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph साथ 12 घंटा recoding capabilities, automatic day, date, month, and moon phase display
a आधुनिक seiko क्वार्ट्ज wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ).
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled reception ( उत्तर अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, चीन, Japan ).
A chronograph is a specific type of watch that is प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch संयुक्त साथ a प्रदर्शक देखें.
A basic chronograph has an independent sweep second hand ; it can be started, stopped, and लौटे to शून्य by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed इससे परिधीय घटक इंटरकनेक्ट, भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The पीसीआई बस supports the कृत्यों मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस, लकिन in a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर 's पता स्पेस.
Attached devices can take either the form of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles, जहाँ it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently been adopted for अन्य कंप्यूटर प्रकार.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस, लकिन, सबसे motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट, which are sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge विद्युत सम्पर्क ), विद्युत विशेषताएँ, बस समय, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased from the PCI खास ब्याज समूह ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI ताश प्रयुक्त in pcs शामिल : संजाल ताश, ध्वनि ताश, modems, extra ports such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video ताश became अगप, और तब पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस.
PCI video cards remain available for use with old PCs बगैर अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट.
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण.
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7, 1957 ) is an American contemporary Christian musician, who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the मुख्यधारा चार्ट.
His biggest कामयाबी in मुख्यधारा म्यूज़िक थी in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No. 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार विजेता, and has earned 40 Dove Awards.
Over the course of his career, he sold more than 13 million albums और अंकित 29 no. 1 hit गीतों, चौदह सुनहरा albums, and five platinum albums.
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he थी भी नामित एक of लोगों magazine 's `` Most Beautiful People ''.
An American poster from the World War II -era that was used to inform people about what वे चाहिए do if वे suspect तोड़फोड़.
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or destruction.
In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally directed at causing कुछ बदलें in कार्यस्थल conditions.
One who engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs try to conceal their identities because of the consequences of उनके क्रियाएँ.
For example, whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of sabotage, it होता नहीं want the व्यक्तिगत पहचान of the perpetrators known.
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private, independent कॉलेज साथ an धर्मान्तरण ईसाई आधार कि focuses on शिक्षण classical liberal arts and government, located in Purcellville, Virginia, United States.
Patrick Henry is known for its रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण ईसाई focus.
As of April 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools, a national faith-related accrediting organization पहचाना by the विभाग of शिक्षा और the परिषद लिये उच्चतर शिक्षा Accreditation.
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense Association, and now serves as the headquarters लिये the संगठन, साथ जिससे it is स्टिल closely कनेक्ट.
The history of television comprises the कार्य of numerous इंजीनियर्स और आविष्कारक in several countries over many decades.
The earliest proposal was in 1908, in a पेपर by a. A. campbell-swinton and postulated the use of cathode rays.
The first practical demonstrations of television, however, were developed using electromechanical विधि to स्कैन, संचारण, और reproduce an चित्र.
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected, electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic प्रणालियों in nearly all applications.
l'idéal cinéma - ज़ाक tati at Aniche opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A cinema in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A ठेठ मल्टीप्लेक्स ( एएमसी सैर 16 in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, U.S. )
A movie theater ( भी पुकारा a सिनेमा, फिल्म हाउस, फिल्मी हाउस, film theater or picture house ) is a venue, usually a building, for viewing films.
Most but not all movie थिएटर हैं वाणिज्यिक परिचालन केटरिंग to the general public, who attend by purchasing a ticket.
The movie is projected with a movie projector onto a विशाल प्रक्षेप स्क्रीन at the सामने of the auditorium.
Most movie theaters are now equipped for digital सिनेमा प्रक्षेप, निकालना the need to बनाएँ और हस्तांतरण a physical film print.
दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया Norton Owner 's Club on California State Route 41, near Creston.
a मोटरसाइकिल क्लबों is a समूह of individuals whose primary interest and activities involve motorcycles.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an संक्रामक बीमारी caused by at तनिक तीन प्रजाति of जीवाणु belonging to the genus Borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North America, whereas Borrelia afzelii और borrelia garinii कारण सबसे यूरोपीय cases.
The disease is named after the towns of lyme और बूढ़ा lyme, कनेक्टिकट, USA, where a number of cases were identified in 1975.
Although एलन steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981, when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne बीमारी in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध.
borrelia is transmitted to इंसानो by the काटना of संक्रमित ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may शामिल ज्वर, सिरदर्द, fatigue, depression, and a characteristic circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ).
Left untreated, बाद लक्षण may involve the joints, heart, and central nervous system.
In सबसे मामले, the संक्रमण और इसके लक्षण are eliminated by antibiotics, especially if the illness is treated early.
Delayed or inadequate treatment can lead to more serious symptoms, which can be disabling और मुश्किल to treat.
Penises of minke whales on display at the आइसलैंडिक phallological संग्रहालय
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a सामान्य पद लिये the अंगों साथ जिससे पुरूष और उभयलिंगी animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do not bear a penis in every animal species, and in those species in which the male does भालू a so-called शिश्न, the penes in the विभिन्न प्रजाति हैं not necessarily homologous.
For example, the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the शिश्न of a पुरूष कीट or barnacle.
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, but not to all ; for उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of सबसे cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised arm, and male spiders use their pedipalps.
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis, it has no major function other than intromission, or at least conveying the sperm to the female, but in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal भाग of the urethra, जिससे discharges दोनो मूत्र दौरान urination और वीर्य दौरान copulation as the occasion requires.
Artists and repertoire ( a & r ) is the प्रभाग of a रिकार्ड लेबल or म्यूज़िक प्रकाशन कम्पनी कि is responsible for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters.
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record लेबल or प्रकाशन कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is generally considered under the purview of, and responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units equal to one-eighth of a मील, समतुल्य to 220 गज, 660 फीट, 40 छड़, or 10 जंजीरों.
The exact value of the furlong varies slightly among english-speaking countries.
Five furlongs are approximately 1 किलोमीटर ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ).
Since the original definition of the मीटर थी one-quarter of एक ten-millionth of the परिधि of the धरती ( साथ the ग्रेट वृत्त coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through Paris ), the circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 lithium बटन कोशिका बैटरी
लिथियम 9 वोल्ट, AA, & AAA sizes
Lithium batteries are disposable ( primary ) batteries that have lithium metal or लिथियम यौगिकों as an anode.
They stand अलावा इससे अन्य बैटरी in उनके high charge density ( long life ) and high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used, lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or क्षारीय बैटरी ) to परिचय 3.7 V. लिथियम बैटरी हैं widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices.
Raymond `` रे '' चार्ल्स जोकर LaMontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio albums, Trouble, Till the Sun Turns Black, Gossip in the Grain and God willin ' & the क्रीक do n't वृद्धि.
He was born in नई हैम्पशायर और थी प्रेरित to create music after hearing an album by Stephen Stills.
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's म्यूज़िक to कि of the बैंड, Van Morrison, Nick Drake, and Tim Buckley.
He जीवनदान in मैसाचुसेट्स साथ his wife and two children.
When the Wind Blows is a अनोखा by जेम्स Patterson.
It is the precursor to the झील हाउस and inspired the Maximum Ride series.
The novel is फिलहाल नियत to be adapted into a movie.
The Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स यहूद संस्थापित in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has had अनेक लोगो जबकि wearing वस्तुतः the वही वर्दी over the years, with subtle changes made to give the uniforms an updated look.
The team colors, वर्दी, और लोगो हैं often ranked as being among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the संयुक्त राज्य to help students get to know each other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन थी विस्तारित to other colleges in the Boston area, the Ivy League, and Stanford University.
It gradually added support for विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become registered users of the site.
Users must register before using the site, after which they may create a personal profile, add other users as मित्रों, और एक्सचेंज संदेश, सहित automatic notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest user groups, organized by workplace, school or college, or अन्य विशेषताएँ, और categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों इससे Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, फेसबुक has over one billion active users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, there are 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 million under 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook, और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes, याद हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन, कीड़ा हमारी friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that Facebook has turned into a नेशनल obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय U.S. visitors in May 2011.
According to Social Media Today, in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a फेसबुक account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions, साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook eventually filed for an initial पब्लिक offering on फ़रवरी 1, 2012, और थी headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और व्यापार on the NASDAQ on May 18, 2012.
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly ज्ञात as the मरुस्थल फॉक्स ( wüstenfuchs, ), थी a German Field Marshal of World War II.
He earned the respect of both his own troops और the दुश्मनों he लड़ा.
Rommel थी a अत्यधिक सजा अधिकारी in संसार युद्ध i और थी awarded the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front.
In World War II, he further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th panzer प्रभाग दौरान the 1940 invasion of France.
His नेतृत्व of जर्मनी और इतालवी शक्तियां in the उत्तर अफ़्रीकी अभियान स्थापित उसे as one of the most able commanders of the war, and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox.
He is regarded as one of the most skilled कमांडरों of मरुस्थल warfare in the विरोध.
He later commanded the German forces opposing the अलाइड cross-channel आक्रमण in Normandy.
His assignments never took उसे to the Eastern Front.
Rommel is regarded as having been a दयालु और पेशेवर officer.
His Afrika Korps was never accused of war crimes, और सैनिको captured दौरान उसके अफ़्रीकी अभियान were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill Jewish soldiers, civilians and captured कमांडो यहूद उपेक्षित.
Late in the war, ख़बरों थी linked to the षड्यंत्र to assassinate Adolf Hitler.
Since Rommel was a national hero, Hitler desired to eliminate उसे चुपचाप.
He forced Rommel to commit suicide साथ a साइनाइड pill, in return for assurances that Rommel 's family would not be persecuted following his death.
Stained glass प्रतिनिधित्व of the Holy Spirit as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating साथ patristic लेखक, बाद elaborated by पाँच बौद्धिक virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics.
They are : wisdom, समझना, अचरज और डरते ( भय of the रब ), counsel, ज्ञान, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
The Earth Day Flag, the latest proposal of जॉन mcconnell लिये a ध्वज of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event, celebrated on April 22, on जिससे कार्यक्रम हैं आयोजित विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
It was first celebrated in 1970, and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day संजाल, और मनाये in अधिक than 192 countries each year.
In 1969 at a युनेस्को सम्मेलन in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, the तिथि प्रस्तावित थी कूच 21, 1970, the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere.
This day of nature 's equipoise was later मंजूर in a उदघोषणा signed by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations.
A month later a separate Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson as an पर्यावरणीय teach-in पहला आयोजित on अप्रैल 22, 1970.
नेल्सन थी बाद awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in recognition of his work.
While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, जो थी the असली नेशनल समन्वयक in 1970, took it अंतरराष्ट्रीय in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous समुदायों celebrate धरती सप्ताह, an entire week of activities focused on environmental issues.
Iodine is a chemical तत्व with symbol I and atomic number 53.
The name is इससे यूनानी ioeidēs, अर्थ बैंगनी or purple, due to the color of elemental iodine vapor.
Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in पोषण, और industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers.
आयोडीन 's अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची परमाणु क्रमांक, कम toxicity, और आसानी of अनुलग्नक to organic compounds have made it a part of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine.
Iodine has only one stable समस्थानिक.
A number of iodine radioisotopes हैं भी प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा applications.
Iodine is मिला on धरती मुख्यतः as the अत्यधिक water-soluble iodide ion, I−, which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools.
Like the other halogens, free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic molecule I2, and then only momentarily after होने oxidized इससे आयोडाइड by an oxidant जैसे free oxygen.
In the universe and on Earth, iodine 's ऊँची परमाणु क्रमांक makes it a अपेक्षाकृत rare element.
However, its presence in ocean जल रै दिए it a भूमिका in biology.
It is the heaviest अनिवार्य तत्व utilized widely by जीवन in biological कृत्यों ( तभी tungsten, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in अनेक soils, due to आरंभिक कम प्रचुरता as a crust-element, and also leaching of soluble iodide by rainwater, has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations.
Iodine कमियां affects परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is required by higher animals, which use it to synthesize thyroid hormones, जिससे contain the तत्व.
Because of this function, radioisotopes of आयोडीन हैं concentrated in the थायराइड gland along with nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a high परिवर्द्धन उत्पाद उपज, concentrates in the थायराइड, लकिन is easily remedied साथ पोटैशियम आयोडाइड treatment.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the अधिनियम of attempting to influence निर्णय बना by officials in the government, most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is done by many different types of लोगों और व्यवस्थित समूह, सहित individuals in the निजी सेक्टर, corporations, fellow legislators or government officials, or advocacy groups ( interest groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a विधायक 's constituencies, अर्थ a वोटर or bloc of मतदाता within his or her electoral district, or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a business, or not.
Professional lobbyists are people whose कारोबार is trying to influence विधान on behalf of a group or individual who hires them.
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of उनके सामान्य जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण, a सीईओ बैठक साथ a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a प्रोजेक्ट महत्वपूर्ण to his/her कम्पनी, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ).
सरकारें प्रायः define and regulate organized group lobbying that has become influential.
The ethics और नैतिकता of lobbying are.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic शक्ति हैं corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it away from fairness ) in order to serve their own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is बनाना यकीनन कि अन्य ' रूचि are duly defended against others ' corruption, or even simply making sure that minority interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade संघ of स्वास्थ्य बीमे कंपनियाँ, may लॉबी a विधानमंडल in अनुक्रम to counteract the influence of tobacco companies, in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ).
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके क्लाइंट can argue कि उनके अपना lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence विधान is a शक्ति struggle.
As in other forms of power struggle, such as war or law enforcement, motives दायरा इससे to self-defense to लड़ लिये इंसाफ, और the dividing लकीर between predation और justice is subject to rationalization.
Sunshine of your प्रेम गिटार riff
Cream were a 1960s अंग्रेजों चट्टान supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their sound was characterised by a संकर of ब्लूज़ चट्टान, मुश्किल चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, combining the psychedelia-themed गीत, Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals, Jack Bruce 's voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The group 's third album, Wheels of Fire, थी the संसार 's पहला platinum-selling double album.
Cream are widely regarded as होने the संसार 's first successful supergroup.
In their career, वे बेची over 15 million albums worldwide.
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful ``, and modern blues ऐसे as `` born अंतर्गत a ख़राब चिह्न ``, as खूब as अधिक eccentric गीतों ऐसे as `` अजीब काढ़ा ``, `` किस्से of वीर ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK, number 11 ), `` Sunshine of Your Love `` ( US, क्रमांक 5 ), `` श्वेत रूम `` ( us, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), and `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of the time, and, along with Jimi Hendrix, and टेरी कठ of शिकागो, popularised the उपयोग of the wah-wah पैदल.
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient musical theme that foreshadowed and influenced the emergence of British bands such as the जेफ़ बेक समूह in the लेट 1960s.
The band 's live प्रदर्शन बहकावे प्रगतिशील rock acts such as Rush.
Cream were inducted into the चट्टान and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993.
They were included in both Rolling Stone and vh1 's सूचियाँ of the `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of All Time ''.
They were also ranked number 16 on VH1 's `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of मुश्किल चट्टान ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by जॉन waters, and starring Ricki Lake, Sonny Bono, Debbie Harry, Michael St. Gerard, Shawn Thompson, Colleen Fitzpatrick, Jerry Stiller, and in his last film role, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended दर्शक.
In fact, hairsprays pg is the mildest rating a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' teenager Tracy turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम as a नर्तकी on a लोकल tv दिखाएँ और rallies against racial segregation.
Hairspray was only a moderate success upon its initial नाट्य रिलीज, कमाई a modest gross of $ 8 million.
However, it managed to attract a larger दर्शक on घर वीडियो in the जल्दी 1990s and became a cult classic.
Most critics praised the film, although some यहूद displeased साथ the overall campiness.
In 2002, the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the वही नाम, जिससे जीती आठ टोनी Awards, including Best Musical in 2003.
A second film version of Hairspray, an adaptation of the stage musical, थी भी released by नई लकीर सिनेमा in 2007, जिससे शामिल अनेक परिवर्तन of scripted items from the original.
The film also ranks # 444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's 2008 सूची of the 500 महानतम movies of all time.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body अंतर्गत a आम नाम, ढांचा, और doctrine within Christianity.
कुछ समूह शामिल do नहीं consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the कैथोलिक Church considers itself the one true church and the Apostolic See, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist होने पुकारा a denomination और do नहीं have कोई औपचारिक denominational ढांचा, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category.
Some groups are large ( e.g. Catholics, lutherans, anglicans or baptists ), जबकि अन्य हैं बस a few छोटी चर्च, और in most cases the relative size is not evident in this list.
Modern movements ऐसे as fundamentalist christianity, pietism, evangelicalism, pentecostalism और the पवित्रता गति sometimes क्रॉस denominational lines, or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups, ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches, for example ).
Such subtleties और complexities हैं not clearly depicted here.
Major विभाजन within Christianity.
Note : This is not a complete सूची, लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible अवलोकन of the विविधता among denominations of Christianity.
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, many of which can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations with Wikipedia articles will be listed in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब प्रविष्टियां on इस सूची हैं notable और verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly पुकारा ईसाई, disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups.
For the purpose of simplicity, this list is intended to reflect the self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination.
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations can be मिला at उनके संबंधित आलेख.
There is no official recognition in most parts of the संसार लिये धार्मिक लाशें, और वहीँ is no आधिकारिक clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative शर्तें ऐसे as `` cult '', or परिचय whether इस or कि group enjoys some measure of respectability.
Such considerations often vary from place to place, where one religious group may enjoy majority औकात in एक प्रदेश, लकिन be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world.
समावेश on इस सूची करता नहीं indicate कोई निर्णय परिचय the size, importance, or character of a group or its members.
1804 map of `` louisiana ``, edged on the वेस्ट by the Rocky Mountains.
The louisiana खरीदें ( `` बिक्री of louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the United States of America in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 सेंट प्रति एकड़ ) लिये the louisiana territory ( $ लाख in डॉलर, less than 42 cents per acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed all or part of 15 present U.S. राज्य और दो कनाडाई प्रांतों.
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of मोंटाना, व्योमिंग, और कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी, सहित the नगर of नई ऑरलियन्स ; और छोटी portions of जमीन कि होता आखिरकार become भाग of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762, the साल it दिया the territory to इसके ally Spain.
Under नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट, फ़्रांस took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an empire in North America.
A slave revolt in हैती और an impending युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन, however, led फ़्रांस to लापरवाही ये plans and sell the entire territory to the United States, who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The purchase of the territory of louisiana took प्लेस during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson.
At the time, the purchase faced घरेलू विपक्ष क्युकी it थी thought to be unconstitutional.
Although he agreed that the U.S. संविधान किया नहीं contain प्रावधानों लिये acquiring territory, जेफरसन decided to go ahead साथ the खरीदें anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at Place d'Armes, New Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United राज्य, 10 कूच 1804, as चित्रित by Thure de Thulstrup.
`` Cool Jerk '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग लिखा by डोनाल्ड Storball and originally performed by The Capitols.
Released in 1966, it पहुँचे no. 2 on the अमरीकी r & b चार्ट and No. 7 on the pop chart.
The backing track for this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the motown हाउस band The Funk Brothers.
Per one of the दुर्गंध भाइयो, the song was originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk. ''
This was taken from watching neighborhood pimps, जो होता नृत्य in the क्लब, लकिन यहूद too `` कूल '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
उनके संस्करण थी subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title would be बैन or नहीं प्राप्त much positive attention, and had the title changed to its current form.
The Go-Go 's, Todd Rundgren, Big Trouble, Human Sexual Response, The La De Da 's, The Creation, and The Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky महसूस to the song.
The Go-Go 's covered the song लिये उनके 1982 एल्बम अवकाश और बाद re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 album Greatest.
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York, ताऊ फ़्रैंक ( gerry bamman ) गाती `` कूल Jerk '' in the shower.
A version of the song with अलग गीत ( `` do the कूल चाबुक '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials.
A recording of `` कूल झटका '' by रिकार्डो रे is प्रदर्शित in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ).
The सोंग सुविधाएँ in the फिल्मी खड़ा in the Shadows of Motown, performed by the Funk Brothers with lead vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The song is heard briefly in the एनिमेटेड विशेषता, मेडागास्कर 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted.
Despite this कारण, it is सूचीबद्ध in कुछ विसंगतियाँ of the film 's soundtrack.
a लीग is a unit of length ( or, rarely, area ).
It was long common in Europe and Latin अमेरिका, लकिन it is no longer an आधिकारिक unit in any nation.
The league originally referred to the distance a person could walk in an hour.
Since the Middle Ages, अनेक मान have महरूम specified in several countries.
In the context of nautical distances, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can देखिए जब खड़ा at समुद्र स्तर.
Thus, a ship traveling one `` league '' has reached कया थी previously the farthest दृश्य distance on the horizon.
The lack of a ऐतिहासिक और वैश्विक मानक लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a dominion of the British Commonwealth, having seceded इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम अंतर्गत the anglo-irish सन्धि.
It comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's 32 काउंटी.
Since 1949 it has existed as the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड.
From its foundation, the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil war between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the सन्धि और प्रतिद्वंद्वियों जो समर्थित a republic.
the pro-treaty पक्ष, संगठित as cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the conflict and won subsequent elections.
वे formed the सरकारी of the राज्य जबतक 1932, जब वे peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil, who defeated them in an election.
The Irish state, despite its violent beginnings, रै remained a उदार लोकतंत्र throughout its existence.
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated इसके स्वतंत्रता in विदेशी नीति matters इससे ब्रिटेन.
In 1948 Ireland formally left the British Commonwealth and adopted the शीर्षक of `` गणतंत्र ''.
In the आर्थिक गोला, the आयरिश state has had a mixed performance.
On independence, it was एक of the wealthier देशों in Europe per head of population.
However it also inherited from British rule the problems of unemployment, करणों, uneven भौगोलिक विकास और कमी of a देशी औद्योगिक base.
For much of its history, the state struggled to rectify ये problems.
Particular peaks of करणों यहूद अंकित दौरान the लेट 1930s, 1950s and 1980s, when the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, Fianna Fáil governments attempted to बनाएँ आयरिश घरेलू उद्योग using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies were dropped in favour of free trade with selected देशों और प्रोत्साहित of विदेशी निवेश with low taxes.
This was expanded when Ireland entered the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ in 1972.
In the 1990s and 2000s, आयरलैंड अनुभवी an आर्थिक बूम ज्ञात as the सेल्टिक बाघ, in which the country 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours.
Immigration also surpassed करणों, bringing the राज्य 's जनसांख्यिकी up to over 4 million.
However, since 2008, Ireland has experienced a कठोर संकट in the बैंकिंग सेक्टर और साथ sovereign debt.
The resultant economic slump has deepened the प्रभाव of the संसार मंदी on Ireland.
From 1937 to 1998, the आयरिश संविधान included a claim on Northern Ireland as a part of the national territory.
however, the राज्य भी opposed और प्रयुक्त इसके सुरक्षा forces against those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army, who tried to unite Ireland by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s और 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale.
Irish सरकारें meanwhile आजमाया to दलाली an अनुबंध to the विरोध known as The Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s.
The British government officially recognised the सही of the आयरिश सरकारी to be a पार्टी to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good Friday Agreement, the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to Northern Ireland and instead extend the सही of आयरिश नागरिकता to सब the लोगों of the द्वीप चाहिए वे काश to have it.
John Quincy Adams ( July 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) थी the छठे अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as American राजनयिक, सीनेटर, और congressional representative.
He was a member of the Federalist, democratic-republican, नेशनल रिपब्लिकन, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams was the son of former President John एडम्स और अबीगैल एडम्स.
As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating many international treaties, most notably the Treaty of Ghent, जिससे ended the युद्ध of 1812.
As सचिव of राज्य, he negotiated साथ the संयुक्त किंगडम over अमेरिका 's उत्तरी किनारा with Canada, negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida, and authored the Monroe Doctrine.
Historians agree he was one of the greatest राजनयिकों और secretaries of राज्य in अमरीकी history.
As president, he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted education.
Adams enacted a part of his agenda और सशुल्क बंद much of the national debt.
He was stymied by a कॉंग्रेस नियंत्रित by उसके दुश्मनों, and his lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him.
He lost उसके 1828 बोली लिये re-election to Andrew Jackson.
in doing so, he became the first president since his father to serve a single term.
Adams is best known as a राजनयिक जो तराशा अमेरिका 's विदेशी नीति in लकीर साथ उसके ardently nationalist commitment to America 's republican values.
More recently होवे ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' lifetime, technological नवप्रवर्तनों और नई अर्थात् of संचार स्प्रेड संदेश of धार्मिक revival, social reform, and party politics.
goods, धन, और लोगों traveled more rapidly and efficiently than ever before.
Adams was निर्वाचित a u.S. प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स बाद leaving दफ्तर, सेवारत for the last 17 years of his life with far greater acclamation than he had achieved as president.
He is, so far, the only president later elected to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( हालांकि जॉन टायलर थी निर्वाचित to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ).
Animated by his growing revulsion against slavery, Adams became a अग्रणी प्रतिद्वन्दी of the स्लेव शक्ति.
He predicted that if a civil war were to break out, the president could abolish गुलामी by using उसके युद्ध powers.
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the गुलामी समस्या, लकिन कहा कि if the दक्षिण became independent there would be a series of bloody slave revolts.
खिड़कियाँ अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 ( ie9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft.
It थी released to the public on March 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band version that is नहीं tied to the रिलीज अनुसूची of कोई particular संस्करण of Windows, unlike previous versions.
It is the first version since Internet एक्सप्लोरर 2 to नहीं be bundled साथ a खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, हालांकि कुछ oems have installed it with Windows 7 on their PCs, as well as new Windows 7 laptops.
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 r2, खिड़कियाँ विस्टा सेवा Pack 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update.
Windows XP और पहले हैं नहीं समर्थित.
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version of अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित on Windows Vista.
Both IA-32 और x64 builds are available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 properties, embedded ICC v2 or v4 color प्रोफ़ाइल support via खिड़कियाँ रंग प्रणाली, और has improved JavaScript performance.
It is the last of the five major web browsers to implement support लिये स्केलेबल वेक्टर ग्राफिक्स ( SVG ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite, hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media न्यास, इमेजिंग support provided by खिड़कियाँ इमेजिंग घटक, और ऊँची वफ़ादारी मुद्रण संचालित by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the html5 वीडियो and audio tags and the Web Open Font Format.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid और पीड़ा reliever पहला marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company.
It was developed by मौरिस treener, सिर केमिस्ट at मील, in elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches, pains, inflammation, fever, headache, heartburn, sour stomach, indigestion, और hangovers, जबकि neutralizing excess पेट एसिड.
it थी launched in 1931.
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and फ्लू, alka-seltzer प्लस, थी बाद introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, alka-mints, थी introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
alka-seltzer is फिलहाल owned by Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Germany.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications बेची over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving टैबलेट कि रूप a कार्बोनेटेड solution in water.
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet dissolving in जल
Image showing the six most common speleothems साथ लेबल्स.
Enlarge to दृश्य लेबल्स.
A stalactite (, ; from the यूनानी stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to ड्रिप '', और meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( secondary mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves.
It is a type of dripstone.
The corresponding formation on the floor of the cave is ज्ञात as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations are used as an वैकल्पिक रास्ता to बताएँ an अकादमिक उपाधि बजाय of स्पेलिंग आउट the शीर्षक in पूरा, such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on business cards.
Many डिग्री have अधिक than one abbreviation.
In the UK, it is नहीं generally the कस्टम to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops ( e.g. `` BSc '' rather than `` B.Sc. ``.
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical, cultural, जातीय, जेनेटिक, भौगोलिक, ऐतिहासिक, भाषाई, धार्मिक, or social affiliation.
First used to denote नेशनल संबद्धों, the term began to be used to relate to physical traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the term was often used, in a taxonomic भाव, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes use the अवधारणा of रेस to मेक भेद among फजी सेट of traits, अन्य in the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ सुझाएँ कि the विचार of रेस प्रायः is प्रयुक्त in a भोली or simplistic way, i.e. that among humans, race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species, Homo sapiens and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
Social conceptions and groupings of दौड़ vary over समय, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals आधारित on आभास traits.
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation in दोनो शारीरिक और behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the विचारधाराओं और theories कि grew आउट of the कार्य of 19th-century विज्ञानियों और physiologists रै led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic.
Although still used in general contexts, it is now often replaced by other words which are कम अस्पष्ट और emotionally चार्ज, ऐसे as populations, लोगों ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
Lucy Stone ( August 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) was a prominent अमरीकी abolitionist और suffragist, और a गायन एडवोकेट और organizer promoting rights for women.
In 1847, Stone became the पहला स्त्री इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a college degree.
She spoke out for women 's rights and against गुलामी at a समय जब महिलाओं यहूद हतोत्साहित and prevented from public speaking.
Stone was the first अंकित अमरीकी स्त्री to retain her own last name after marriage.
Stone 's organizational activities for the cause of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first नेशनल महिलाओं 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन और वो समर्थित और sustained it annually along with a number of other local, state and regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in front of a number of legislative लाशें to प्रचार कानून giving अधिक अधिकारों to women.
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after which वो helped रूप the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's अधिकारों reformers, the नीतियां मॉडरेट अमरीकी स्त्री suffrage Association, which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote.
Stone wrote extensively परिचय a चौड़ी दायरा of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, प्रकाशन और distributing भाषणों by herself and others, and convention proceedings.
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal, a weekly periodical that she स्थापित और प्रचारित, स्टोन aired दोनो उसके अपना and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's rights movement '', Stone delivered a वाक जिससे sparked सुसान B. एंथोनी to लो up the कारण of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote कि `` लुसी स्टोन थी the पहला व्यक्ति by जिसको the दिल of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question. ''
Together, Anthony, Stanton, and Stone have been called the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a bond is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the bond issuer to the holders.
It is a debt security, under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and, depending on the शर्तें of the बंध, is obliged to अदा उन्हें ब्याज ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually देय at फिक्स्ड intervals ( semiannual, annual, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the bond is negotiable, i.e. the ownership of the यंत्र can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of ऋण or iou : the होल्डर of the बंध is the lender ( creditor ), the जारीकर्ता of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ), and the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to वित्त long-term निवेश, or, in the case of government bonds, to finance current expenditure.
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are considered to be money मार्केट यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is in the लंबाई of the पद of the instrument.
Bonds and stocks are both securities, but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. वे are owners ), whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e. they are lenders ).
Another difference is कि bonds प्रायः have a पारिभाषित पद, or परिपक्वता, बाद जिससे the bond is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable bond, such as Consols, which is a perpetuity, i.e. a बंध साथ no maturity.
A scale मॉडल of the मीनार of London.
This model can be found अंदर the मीनार.
Scale मॉडल of जल संचालित turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 matchbox शेवरलेट tahoe, 1:43 घाट f-100, 1:25 revell Monogram 1999 Ford Mustang Cobra, 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
मॉडल जहाजों and castle
A scale model is a physical model, a representation or copy of an object that is larger or छोटी than the वास्तविक आकार of the ऑब्जेक्ट, जिससे seeks to maintain the सापेक्ष proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object.
Very often the scale model is used as a guide to बनाना the ऑब्जेक्ट in पूरा आकार.
Scale मॉडल हैं निर्मित or collected for many reasons.
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the zune उत्पाद परिवार released on September 15, 2009 by Microsoft.
It was a direct competitor with the Apple iPod and iphone श्रेणी of mobile devices.
It was initially released in 16 and 32 GB capacities.
A 64 GB version was released on अप्रैल 9, 2010.
It utilized a टचस्क्रीन इंटरफ़ेस लिये नेविगेशन and included Wi-Fi for synchronization, access to the Zune Marketplace and Web browsing.
The Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip, allowing it to play 720p video through the वैकल्पिक hdmi zune डॉक on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, content would be scaled down to 480x272 pixels on the खिलाड़ी 's oled टचस्क्रीन.
बूढ़ा sparky, the इलेक्ट्रिक chair used at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution, प्रायः performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी, is an निष्पादन method originating in the United States in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas एडिसन दौरान the युद्ध of currents, और रै महरूम प्रयुक्त तभी in the संयुक्त राज्य और, लिये a काल of अनेक decades, in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned person was attached to the chair, various cycles ( differing in voltage and duration ) of प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान होता be passed through the व्यक्तिगत 's देह, in अनुक्रम to कारण fatal क्षति to the आतंरिक organs ( including the brain ).
The first धक्का of इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान थी designed to कारण तात्कालिक unconsciousness और दिमाग death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs.
Death was frequently caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the दिल.
हालांकि in the संयुक्त States the electric chair has become a symbol of the death penalty, its use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection, which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution.
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a विधि of निष्पादन, आज it is तभी कायम as a secondary method that may be chosen over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन in अलबामा, फ्लोरिडा, दक्षिण Carolina and Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal इंजेक्शन as an वैकल्पिक method.
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee, the electric chair has been रिटायर्ड मगर लिये those जिनकी पूंजी अपराधों यहूद वचनबद्ध prior to legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates जो do नहीं चुनें electrocution or inmates जो वचनबद्ध their crimes after the designated date are killed by lethal injection.
The electric chair is an वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन approved for potential use in Arkansas and Oklahoma if other forms of execution are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution.
It is the sole method of execution in Vermont, where देशद्रोह is the तभी capital crime.
On February 8, 2008, the Nebraska Supreme Court determined that execution by electric कुर्सी थी a `` बेदर्द और असामान्य दंड '' under the state 's constitution.
This brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska, the only बाकी राज्य to retain electrocution as इसके एकमात्र method of execution for murder.
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly, the state legislature of the अमरीकी राज्य of मेरीलैंड, और is रचित of 141 delegates निर्वाचित इससे 47 districts.
The House of Delegates कक्ष is स्तिथ in the मेरीलैंड राज्य हाउस ( राज्य कैपिटल ) on State Circle in Annapolis, which is the state capital.
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the कार्यालयों of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल of the राज्य of मेरीलैंड.
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis, in the nearby कैस्पर R. टेलर, jr. हाउस दफ्तर भवन.
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris ) took place दौरान संसार युद्ध ii इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 जबतक the surrender of the occupying German garrison on 25 August.
The मुक्ति of पेरिस प्रारंभ साथ an uprising by the French Resistance against the German garrison.
On 24 August, the फ्रेंच शक्तियां of the आंतरिक ( शक्तियां françaises de l'intérieur, ffi ) प्राप्त सुदृढीकरण इससे the फ़्री French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton.
The capital region of France था महरूम governed by नाजी जर्मनी चूंकि the हस्ताक्षर of the दूसरी compiègne armistice in जून 1940, when the German Army occupied northern and westernmost France, and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the निर्वासन of the vichy सरकारी to sigmaringen in Germany.
However, there was still much heavy fighting to be किया पहले फ़्रांस थी liberated, सहित the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान august-september ( in provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ), साथ the german-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in these क्षेत्रों लिये the शेष of 1944 और into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' भी ज्ञात as `` अहसास alright '' is a सोंग written by Dave Mason of the English rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album, Traffic.
The song was also a hit single for several performers : Joe cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, us # 33 ), mongo Santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971, US # 54 ).
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ), The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ), Lou Rawls, Freddie King, Paul Weller, Lulu, Chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), विरल धरती, the इलेक्ट्रिक अवधारणा ऑर्केस्ट्रा, माँ 's finest ( 1973 ), the ओहियो खिलाड़ी ( 1971 ), डायना रॉस with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes.
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad Oil Company was reissued on the dancefloor जैज़ compilation Blue Juice 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 फिल्मी duets, सुंग by Huey Lewis.
दोनो the असली और the जो Cocker cover were featured in the movie Flight, starring Denzel Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor, voice actor, singer, songwriter and musician, best known for his अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom ned 's declassified स्कूल अस्तित्व मार्गदर्शिका और लिये उसके भूमिका in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules, as the lead character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth और फाइनल ऋतु of the एबीसी परिवार दिखाएँ Greek.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record based on images
Sample दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record
an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड ( ehr ) is an evolving अवधारणा defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations.
it is a रिकार्ड in डिजिटल स्वरूप कि is theoretically capable of being shared across different health care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों और अन्य सूचना networks or exchanges.
EHRs may शामिल a दायरा of आंकड़ा, सहित जनसांख्यिकी, चिकित्सा इतिहास, दवा और allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age and weight, and billing information.
ऋण origination is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a borrower applies for a new loan, and a lender processes that application.
Origination generally includes all the कदम इससे लेने a ऋण अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ).
Loan servicing covers सबकुछ बाद disbursing the funds until the loan is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized version of new account opening for वित्तीय सेवाएं संगठन.
Certain people and organizations specialize in ऋण origination.
Mortgage brokers and other बंधक originator कंपनियाँ serve as a prominent example.
There हैं अनेक अलग types of loans.
For more information on loan types, see the loan और उपभोक्ता lending आलेख.
Steps involved in originating a loan vary by loan type, various kinds of loan risk, नियामक, lender नीति, और अन्य कारकों.
Top left : The Tennessee Valley Authority, part of the New Deal, होने हस्ताक्षरित into law in 1933.
Top right : Franklin delano रूज़वेल्ट, जो थी जिम्मेदार for initiatives and programs collectively known as the New Deal.
Bottom : A public mural from one of the कलाकारों employed by the New Deal.
The New Deal was a series of economic programs enacted in the संयुक्त राज्य between 1933 and 1936.
They involved presidential कार्यपालिका आदेश or कानून passed by कॉंग्रेस दौरान the पहला पद of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The programs were in जवाब to the ग्रेट अवसाद, और केन्द्रित on कया इतिहासकारों कॉल the `` 3 rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is राहत लिये the बेरोजगार और ग़रीब ; रिकवरी of the economy to normal levels ; and Reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White हाउस लिये सात आउट of नौ अध्यक्षीय शर्तें इससे 1933 to 1969 ), साथ इसके आधार in उदार विचार, the श्वेत दक्षिण, परंपरागत डेमोक्रेट, बिग नगर machines, and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities.
The Republicans were split, with conservatives opposing the entire New सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार और विकास, और उदारवादियों accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि वर्चस्व सबसे अध्यक्षीय चुनावों into the 1960s, while the opposition Conservative Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the पद `` उदार '' typically was used for supporters of the New Deal, and `` conservative `` for its opponents.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in उसके endeavours by a “pro-spender” बहुमत in कॉंग्रेस ( drawn इससे two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and Left party districts ).
As noted by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators — spelled दूसरी नई सौदे reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` दूसरी नई सौदे '' ( 1935–38 ), साथ the दूसरी एक अधिक liberal and more controversial.
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ विविध समूह, इससे बैंकिंग और railroads to उद्योग and farming, all of which demanded help for economic survival.
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration, for उदाहरण, provided $ 500 लाख लिये राहत परिचालन by राज्य और शहरों, जबकि the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions, the works प्रगति प्रशासन ( wpa ) राहत कार्यक्रम ( जिससे बना the संघीय सरकारी by far the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States Housing Authority और फार्म सुरक्षा प्रशासन, दोनो in 1937, और the मेला मजदूर मानकों अधिनियम of 1938, जिससे नियत अधिकतम घंटों and minimum wages for most categories of workers.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter विभाजित between the afl और cio मजदूर संघ led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938.
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined in the अनौपचारिक रूढ़िवादी गठबन्धन.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs such as the WPA and CCC and अवरोधित प्रमुख उदार प्रस्ताव.
Roosevelt himself turned उसके ध्यान to the war effort, and won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
The Supreme Court declared the नेशनल रिकवरी प्रशासन ( nra ) और the पहला संस्करण of the Agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional, however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after FDR, Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) बाएँ the नई सौदे largely बरकरार, भी expanding it in some areas.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as प्रेरणा लिये a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम, जिससे रिपब्लिकन Richard M. Nixon generally retained.
After 1974, however, the कॉल लिये deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
The New Deal regulation of banking ( Glass–Steagall अधिनियम ) थी निलंबित in the 1990s.
Many New Deal programs remain क्रियाशील, साथ कुछ स्टिल ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the असली names, सहित the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ).
The largest कार्यक्रम स्टिल in अस्तित्व आज हैं the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रणाली and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
A woman ( ), pl : महिलाओं ( ) is a मादा human.
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult, with the पद लड़की होने the usual पद लिये a मादा child or adolescent.
however, the पद स्त्री is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to identify a female human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women are typically capable of giving birth, though पुरानी महिलाओं जो have गए through रजोनिवृत्ति और कुछ intersex women can not.
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rock band Aerosmith for the 1998 film Armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the song debuted at number one on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the पहला # 1 लिये the band after 28 years together ).
The song stayed at क्रमांक एक लिये चार सप्ताह इससे सितंबर 5 to September 26, 1998.
The song also ठहरे at क्रमांक 1 लिये अनेक weeks in several other countries.
In the UK, the song peaked at number four, becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the uk, जहाँ it थी the 17th best-selling सिंगल of 1998, and has sold over a million copies.
Although not used by the majority of the संसार 's देशों, daylight छायांकन time is common in the Western world.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English — is the practice of advancing clocks दौरान the हल्का महीने so कि evenings have अधिक daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks are adjusted forward one hour निकट the प्रारंभ of वसन्त और हैं समायोजित backward in autumn.
The modern idea of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन और it थी पहला implemented दौरान the First World War.
Many countries have used it at विभिन्न टाइम्स चूंकि then.
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s, and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis और रै महरूम widely प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका और यूरोपीय चूंकि तब.
The practice has been दोनो praised और criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, sports, and other क्रियाएँ कि exploit धूप बाद working hours, but can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce संध्या उपयोग of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत ), आधुनिक हीटिंग और कूलिंग usage patterns differ greatly, and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST clock shifts present अन्य चुनौतियां.
They complicate timekeeping, and can disrupt meetings, travel, बिलिंग, रिकार्ड keeping, चिकित्सा डिवाइस, भारी उपकरण, और नींद patterns.
तन्त्र can प्रायः समायोजन कंप्यूटर clocks automatically, but this can be limited and error-prone, particularly when DST dates are changed.
floorplan of the château de Montargis
montargis is a कम्यून in the loiret विभाग in north-central France on the Loing river.
The town is located about south of Paris और ईस्ट of orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the second largest नगर in the loiret, after Orléans.
It is near a large forest, and contains लाइट उद्योग और खेती, including saffron.
Due to its numerous नहरों और पुलों, montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais. ''
Though quite modern, it retains a मध्यकालीन आकर्षण in its downtown area.
In computer storage, a logical unit number, or LUN, is a number used to identify a logical unit, which is a device addressed by the scsi प्रोटोकॉल or प्रोटोकॉल जिससे encapsulate scsi, ऐसे as Fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be used with any device which supports read/write operations, such as a tape ड्राइव, लकिन is सबसे प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to a लॉजिकल डिस्क as created on a SAN.
Though not technically सही, the पद `` lun '' is often also used to refer to the logical disk itself.
The Gospel According to Mark (,, to euangelion kata markon ), commonly shortened to the इन्जील of चिह्नित or simply Mark, is the second book of the New Testament.
This canonical account of the life of Jesus of Nazareth is one of the तीन synoptic gospels.
It was thought to be an epitome, which खाते लिये इसके प्लेस as the दूसरी gospel in the Bible.
however, सबसे समकालीन विद्वानों now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of ल्यूक is widely आयोजित by अनेक, हालांकि नहीं सब, नई वसीयत scholars.
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of यीशु इससे उसके बपतिस्मा by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to his death and resurrection.
It focuses विशेषकर on the last week of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its स्विफ्ट कथा portrays यीशु as a heroic man of action, an exorcist, healer and miracle worker.
An important theme of Mark is the मुक्तिदाता रहस्य.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, tries unsuccessfully to keep his messianic identity रहस्य, और conceals उसके संदेश साथ parables.
Meanwhile, the disciples fail to understand both the implication of the चमत्कार of यीशु और the meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest, death and resurrection.
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at चिह्नित 16:8 साथ the डिस्कवरी of यीशु ' खाली मकबरा और कि the following account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition.
According to tradition and some जल्दी गिरिजाघर लेखक, the लेखक is Mark the Evangelist, the companion of the apostle Peter.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on several underlying sources, varying in रूप और in धर्मशास्त्र, जिससे tells विरूद्ध the परंपरा कि the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching.
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as ज्ञात अपोस्टोलिक preachings, और pre-existing लिखा रिकॉर्ड कि do नहीं मौजूद today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the कहानियां in the इन्जील may have महरूम transmitted orally before being written down.
Various elements within the इन्जील सुझाएँ कि the लेखक लिखा in Syria or Palestine for a non-Jewish Christian community.
The Lord of the Rings is an epic ऊँची काल्पनिक अनोखा लिखा by अंग्रेज़ी भाषाशास्त्री and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to tolkien 's 1937 children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा the होब्बिट, लकिन आखिरकार developed into a much larger work.
It was written in stages between 1937 और 1949, much of it during World War II.
It is the second best-selling अनोखा कभी लिखा, साथ over 150 लाख copies sold.
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an earlier age निर्मित the एक रिंग to नियम the अन्य बजती of शक्ति as the परम हथियार in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins, Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee, Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took, but also the hobbits ' chief allies and यात्राएं companions : aragorn, a इंसान रेंजर ; boromir, a man इससे gondor ; gimli, a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by tolkien to be एक आवाज़ of a two-volume नियत, साथ the other being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic कारण to प्रकाशित the रब of the बजती as three volumes over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955, thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy.
The three volumes were हकदार the फेलोशिप of the रिंग, the दो मीनारें, and The Return of the King.
Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, दो प्रति आवाज़, साथ अनेक appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume.
The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित into अनेक languages.
Tolkien 's work has been the subject of extensive विश्लेषण of इसके विषयवस्तु and origins.
Although a major work in itself, the story was only the last movement of a larger epic tolkien था worked on चूंकि 1917, in a प्रक्रम he described as mythopoeia.
Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology, religion and the लेखक 's distaste लिये the प्रभाव of industrialization, as खूब as पहले काल्पनिक works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I.
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern काल्पनिक ; the प्रभाव of tolkien 's works is ऐसे कि the उपयोग of the शब्द `` tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture, the founding of अनेक समाजों by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's works, और the प्रकाशन of अनेक किताबे परिचय Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has प्रेरित, और continues to inspire, कलाकृति, म्यूज़िक, films and television, video games, and subsequent literature.
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made for radio, थिएटर, and film.
The following is an episode list for the निकलोडियन sitcom Drake & Josh.
The series debuted on January 11, 2004.
A TV film Merry Christmas, ड्रेक & जोश थी बना अलावा इससे the नियमित series on December 5, 2008.
There are a total of 60 episodes यहूद उत्पादित spanning four seasons.
Drake Bell, जोश पेक, और मिरांडा cosgrove यहूद the only actors to appear in all 60 episodes.
The San Francisco 49ers conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर at the टोली 's मुख्यालय और अभ्यास सुविधा in Santa Clara, California in August 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys साथ the एक्सेप्शन of क्वार्टरबैक एलेक्स स्मिथ, who is in a black jersey ; the defense in white.
in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League, training camp refers to the time before the season commences.
During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an outside स्थान, प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों, to conduct प्रशिक्षण camp for at least the first few weeks.
This is similar to बेसबॉल 's वसन्त प्रशिक्षण.
Training शिविर is used in several different ways.
New players and coaches use it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems.
For younger खिलाड़ी, it serves as a period of evaluation ; for veterans, it is time to round back into form.
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is विभाजित into several different components.
The first is scrimmages.
These are pseudo-games where टीमों चलाएं nearly full games ' worth of plays.
Sometimes, two practice सत्र हैं आयोजित on the वही day.
This concept is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of training camp include drills, meetings with coaches and अन्य खिलाड़ी at एक 's स्थिति, वज़न प्रशिक्षण, and pre-season games.
the latter हाफ of training camp leads directly into the exhibition season.
With एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण शिविरों starting in late-July, the biggest concern has been dehydration.
In 2001, Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a चिकित्सा कंडीशन आधारित इससे निर्जलीकरण और heatstroke.
The death of stringer prompted the एनएफएल to change their training policies.
At each practice, every team must have the team डॉक्टर और प्रशिक्षकों on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.
With NFL training camps beginning in late July, severe मौसम can affect अभ्यास and exhibition games.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड भूरा स्टेडियम, और कठोर storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an early look at the players ; admission to practices is प्रायः फ़्री or substantially कम महंगी than a खेल ticket, making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons.
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp साइट साथ साथ offering क्रियाएँ और कार्यक्रम to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience.
In कम्प्यूटिंग, a संचिका प्रणाली ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to store, retrieve and update a set of files.
The term could refer to the अमूर्त आंकड़ा structures प्रयुक्त to define फाइलें, or to the actual software or firmware components that implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are used on local आंकड़ा भंडार डिवाइस ; अन्य provide संचिका अभिगम via a network protocol ( e.g. NFS, SMB, or 9P clients ).
Some file प्रणालियों हैं `` आभासी '', in कि the `` फाइलें '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g. procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store.
The file system manages access to both the content of files और the मेटाडेटा परिचय those फाइलें.
It is responsible for arranging storage space ; reliability, दक्षता, और ट्यूनिंग साथ लिहाज़ to the physical storage medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the only person to have परोसा in both of these offices.
Before becoming President, Taft, a Republican, was चयनित to serve on the श्रेष्ठ अदालत of सिनसिनाटी in 1887.
In 1890, taft थी नियुक्त solicitor सामान्य of the संयुक्त राज्य और in 1891 a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
In 1900, President William McKinley नियुक्त taft governor-general of the Philippines.
In 1904, President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of War in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे taft, तब उसके बंद राजनैतिक ally, into उसके handpicked अध्यक्षीय successor.
Taft assumed a prominent भूमिका in प्रॉब्लम solving, assuming on कुछ अवसरों the भूमिका of एक्टिंग Secretary of State, while declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve on the Supreme Court.
सवारी a वेव of लोकप्रिय support लिये fellow रिपब्लिकन Roosevelt, Taft won an easy victory in his 1908 bid for the presidency.
In his only term, Taft 's घरेलू कार्यसूची emphasized trust-busting, सिविल सेवा सुधार, strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission, improving the performance of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, Taft sought to further the economic development of nations in Latin America and Asia through `` डालर कूटनीति ``, और दिखाया decisiveness और संयम in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented taft थी बेख़बर to the राजनैतिक ramifications of उसके निर्णय, प्रायः alienated his own key constituencies, and was overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912.
In surveys of presidential scholars, Taft is usually क्रमित निकट the मध्य of सूचियाँ of सब अमरीकी राष्ट्रपतियों.
After leaving दफ्तर, taft खर्च उसके समय in academia, मध्यस्थता, और the ढूंढें for world peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace.
In 1921, after the First World War, President Warren G. Harding appointed taft मुख्य इंसाफ of the United States.
Taft served in इस क्षमता जबतक shortly before his death in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the exodus, in जिससे the hebrew-born मूसा, an अपनाया मिश्र प्रिंस, becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves.
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as his adoptive bhai, pharaoh rameses ii, ऐनी बैक्सटर as nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan, Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora, Debra Paget as Lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh सेती i, नीना foch as bithiah, मार्था स्कॉट as yoshebel, जूडिथ एंडरसन as Memnet, Vincent Price as Baka, and John Carradine as Aaron.
The film was released by Paramount Pictures in vistavision on अक्तूबर 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, which DeMille narrated, was the पिछला फिल्मी कि he निर्देशित.
He was set to direct the 1958 remake of उसके 1938 फिल्मी the buccaneer, लकिन उसके फाइनल बीमारी forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also planned to film the जीवन of रब baden पावेल, the संस्थापक of the स्काउट movement, with David Niven ; this project was never realized.
the टेन आयतें is a partial remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film.
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956 संस्करण worked on the original.
It has since been remade as a टेलीविज़न miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten आयतें is एक of the सबसे financially कामयाब films ever made, grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office.
Adjusting for महंगाई, इस makes it the छठे highest-grossing film domestically, with an adjusted total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box office जालस्थल `` the संख्याएँ '' lists the domestic gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of कॉंग्रेस as होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In June 2008, the American फिल्मी संस्थान नाज़िल इसके `` टेन शीर्ष टेन `` —the best ten films in ten American film genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community.
The Ten Commandments was listed as the दसवाँ बेहतरीन फिल्मी in the epic genre.
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture, और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव.
Charlton Heston was nominated for a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र Actor in the drama category.
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award for Best Actor for his role as Rameses, along with his अन्य भूमिकाएँ in the किंग और i और अनास्तासिया.
Louisville (, or ) is a major city and the largest city in the U.S. राज्य of केंटकी और the काउंटी सीट of जेफरसन County.
Since 2003, the city 's borders have been with those of the काउंटी क्युकी of a city-county merger.
The city 's total संचित जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी थी 741,096 ( louisville 's संतुलन कुल, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally.
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding काउंटी, आठ in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, having a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,451,564, शामिल the एमएसए, Hardin County and Larue County in Kentucky, and Scott County, Indiana.
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century, louisville आज is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the स्थान of the केंटकी डर्बी, the पहला of तीन सालाना thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
A ठेठ प्रायोगिक सेटअप for an aldol reaction.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the temperature of जिससे is होने monitored by a तापयुग्म ( the तार on the left ).
A cooling bath, in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry ) practice, is a liquid मिश्रण जिससे is प्रयुक्त to maintain कम temperatures, typically between 13 °c और −196 °C.
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation, to हटाएँ सॉल्वैंट्स using a रोटरी evaporator, or to perform a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया नीचे room temperature ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a ठंडा द्रव ( विशेषकर द्रव नाइट्रोजन, जल, or भी एयर ) — लकिन सबसे commonly the पद refers to ( b ) a मिश्रण of 3 components : ( 1 ) a कूलिंग एजेंट ( ऐसे as शुष्क बर्फ or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as liquid water, ethylene glycol, acetone, etc. ), which transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A familiar example of इस is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice cream.
The phase-change of बर्फ into द्रव जल requires उर्जा, 'pulling ' heat from the system.
Adding salt lowers the अस्थायी at जिससे इस happens, अर्थ more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it must 'pull ' अधिक ऊष्मा इससे इसके पर्यावरण to become द्रव. )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by असामान्य खाने आदतें कि may involve either अपर्याप्त or excessive food intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health.
Bulimia nervosa and एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा हैं the सबसे आम specific forms in the United Kingdom.
Other प्रकार of खाने विकार include binge eating disorder and eating disorder not otherwise specified.
Bulimia नर्वोज़ा is a विकार characterized by binge eating and purging.
Purging can include self-induce vomiting, over-exercising, और the उपयोग of diuretics, enemas, and laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the point of self-starvation और excessive वज़न घाटा.
Though primarily thought of as affecting महिलाओं ( an अनुमानित 5–10 लाख होने affected in the U.K. ), eating disorders affect males as well.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with eating disorders are males ( गोर्गान, 1999 ).
( an estimated 1 million u.K. males होने प्रभावित ).
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both men and women, there is evidence to suggest that it is महिलाओं in the पश्चिमी संसार जो हैं at the उच्चतम रिस्क of विकासशील उन्हें और the उपाधि of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of all Americans personally जान किसी साथ an खाने विकार.
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी खोजा, और the कौशल to observe the functions of the brain as well.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic और self-regulatory कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल in खाने आचरण, which is a key component in eating disorders.
The precise कारण of खाने विकार is नहीं entirely understood, but there is evidence that it may be linked to other medical conditions and situations.
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to खाने विकार affecting diverse populations.
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a greater chance of getting an खाने विकार than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested that women साथ ptsd, विशेषकर due to sexually सम्बन्धित trauma, are more likely to develop anorexia nervosa.
One study showed that foster लड़कियों हैं अधिक संभावित to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think that peer दबाव और idealized body-types देखी in the मीडिया हैं also a significant factor.
Some शोध दिखाएँ कि लिये निश्चित people there are genetic reasons why they may be prone to developing an eating disorder.
हाल अध्ययन have मिला प्रमाण a सहसंबंध between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In addition, anxiety विकार और व्यक्तित्व विकार हैं आम occurrences with clients of eating disorders.
जबकि उचित उपचार can be अत्यधिक प्रभावी लिये अनेक कष्ट इससे विशिष्ट प्रकार of खाने विकार, the consequences of eating disorders can be severe, including death ( whether from direct medical effects of disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ).
Slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य existed इससे the जल्दी सालो of the colonial period ; it was firmly established by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
However, by 1804, all states north of the Mason and Dixon लकीर था either abolished गुलामी outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of slavery.
In 1787 Congress prohibited slavery in the उत्तरपश्चिम territory.
But slavery gained new life in the South with the कपास उद्योग बाद 1800, और विस्तारित into the Southwest.
The nation was polarized into स्लेव और फ़्री states along the Mason-Dixon Line, which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808, but the घरेलू व्यापार, साथ बिक्री to the गहन दक्षिण, विस्तारित dramatically, and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade.
Before the 1840s, the South was vigorously defending गुलामी और इसके विस्तार into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as sinful, and numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां अस्वीकृत it as हानिकारक to the अधिकारों of free men.
After विफल compromises और अब्राहम lincoln 's चुनाव, in 1861 eleven slave states broke away to form the Confederate States of America, leading to the American Civil War.
The federal सरकारी in 1862 made abolition of slavery a war goal.
In January 1863 अध्यक्ष lincoln freed स्लेव in the confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective December 1865, abolished गुलामी throughout the संपूर्ण संयुक्त राज्य, including the Border states and the Indian territories.
From the 16th to the 19th सदियां, an अनुमानित 12 million Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See गुलामी in the americas.
The ग्रेट बहुमत गई to the शुगर बागानों of the West Indies or Brazil, where mortality was high.
About 645,000 were brought to कया is अभी the United States.
By the 1860 United States Census, the स्लेव जनसांख्यिकी in the अमरीकी South had grown to four million.
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave states, nearly 400,000 आयोजित स्लेव ( roughly एक in चार ), amounting to 8 % of all American families.
While some slaves worked as house servants and शहरी शिल्पकार, the ग्रेट बहुमत worked on बागानों or विशाल खेतो, cultivating lucrative cash crops, such as rice, tobacco, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South, where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in कपास.
In small operations, वे worked with their owners.
In large plantations they were directed by श्वेत सशुल्क overseers.
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( स्वामित्व of a इंसान होने, और of his/her वंशजों ), a जातिगत तत्व थी आधारभूत : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned, almost universally, by whites of European descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by अन्य दक्षिणी colonies, enacted विधि कि children of slave mothers were born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which was difficult and illegal to do ), or by manumission by owners, which was regulated by राज्य, और became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also organized कार्य by a प्रणाली of बंधुआ मजदूर ज्ञात as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted लिये अनेक सालो लिये दोनो ग़रीब Europeans and Africans alike, to pay off the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements क्युकी of ग़रीब economies in उनके घर countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to आयात अधिक africans as slaves.
Recognizing the importance of slavery, the House of Burgesses in वर्जिनिया enacted a नई स्लेव कोड in 1705 ; it संयुक्त a किस्में of विधान और added नई provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law.
schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of भाग of leaf, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The शब्द जाइलम is निकला इससे the यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic फलन is to हस्तांतरण जल, but it also transports some nutrients through the plant.
This clock representation shows some of the major इकाई of geological समय और निर्णायक कार्यक्रम of धरती history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of जीवन on धरती ; इसके अपर boundary is अभी regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ).
Other subdivisions reflect the एवोल्यूशन of जीवन ; the archean और proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
The two million year Quaternary period, the time of recognizable इंसानो, is too छोटी to be दृश्य at इस scale.
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between कार्यक्रम कि have occurred throughout धरती 's इतिहास.
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates and nomenclature set forth by the International Commission on स्तरिकी मानक रंग कोड of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग on स्तरिकी.
Evidence from radiometric डेटिंग indicates that the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old.
The geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been व्यवस्थित into विभिन्न units according to events which took place in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the composition of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें, indicating प्रमुख geological or paleontological events, such as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the Cretaceous काल और the paleogene काल is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life.
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil रिकार्ड ( पहले the proterozoic इओन ) हैं पारिभाषित by absolute age.
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made by Texas Instruments.
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more user दोस्ताना संस्करण of the ti-85, और as a replacement for the TI-81.
It was the direct पूर्ववर्ती of the TI-83.
It shares with the ti-85 a 6 mhz zilog Z80 microprocessor.
Like the TI-81, the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display, and the core feature set of the ti-81 साथ अनेक नई सुविधाएँ.
The cast of characters of The किंग of सेनानी XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game series, produced by SNK Playmore, शामिल a चौड़ी डाल of वर्ण, some of which are taken from other SNK games.
The story takes place in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in which an annual series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held.
The first game in the series introduces the आरंभिक प्रमुख अक्षर of the श्रेणी, kyo kusanagi, a young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo झगड़े विरूद्ध the kusanagi गोत्र 's दुश्मनों, उसके rival Iori Yagami, and the god Orochi and its human followers, among others.
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc, घूमती around k ', a यंग man जो seeks to नष्ट the रहस्यमय nests organization because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his past memories, so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control.
In The किंग of सेनानी 2003, a नई अक्षर नामित राख crimson enters the tournament, to steal the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the past for an unknown reason.
A new group of antagonists, ज्ञात as those इससे the पास्ट, भी appears in the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to their unknown master.
The plot and the characters came from the yamata no orochi लेजेंड.
There are also several characters in the games that are parodies or homages to अनेक लोकप्रिय दुश्मनी, manga, and films.
Merchandise based on the characters has also महरूम released, सहित कार्रवाई आंकड़े और keychains.
The characters have garnered praise इससे अनेक वीडियो खेल publications for the quality of their designs and movesets.
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in कुछ of the वर्ण, लकिन added कि the roster is greatly diverse.
व्हेल युद्धों is a साप्ताहिक अमरीकी documentary-style reality television series that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel.
The program follows Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, as he and the क्रू सवार उनके विभिन्न बरतन harass जापानी whalers बंद the coast of Antarctica.
On January 5, 2013, Animal Planet नवीनीकृत the श्रेणी for a sixth season.
The Harpy त्रिभुज ( harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical species of eagle.
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan त्रिभुज जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the नई गिनी harpy त्रिभुज or पापुआई Harpy Eagle.
It is the largest और सबसे शक्तिशाली रैप्टर मिला in the americas, and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy layer.
Destruction of its natural habitat has seen it vanish from अनेक भाग of इसके पूर्व दायरा, और it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
Biological classification, or वैज्ञानिक वर्गीकरण in जीवविज्ञान, is a विधि of वैज्ञानिक taxonomy used to group and categorize organisms into groups such as genus or species.
These groups हैं ज्ञात as taxa ( singular : taxon ).
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus, जो grouped प्रजाति according to साझा physical characteristics.
ये groupings have चूंकि महरूम संशोधित to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the लेट 20th सदी, phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों हैं grouped आधारित purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in some areas of biology.
आणविक phylogenetics, जिससे उपयोग DNA sequences as data, has also driven many recent revisions and is likely to continue doing so.
biological वर्गीकरण belongs to the science of biological systematics.
लेनन 's signature
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician, singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a संस्थापक सदस्य of the बीटल्स, एक of the सबसे commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music.
With Paul McCartney, he formed एक of the सबसे मनाये songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and उठाया in लिवरपूल, as a किशोरावस्था Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; his first band, the Quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade, Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic ओनो बैंड और imagine, और iconic गीतों such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine ``.
After his marriage to योको ओनो in 1969, he बदला his name to John Ono Lennon.
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote time to उठाने उसके शिशु बेटे शॉन, लकिन re-emerged साथ ओनो in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy.
He was murdered तीन सप्ताह after its release.
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature और acerbic wit in उसके म्यूज़िक, लिखने, drawings, on film and in interviews.
Controversial through his political and peace activism, he moved to New York City in 1971, जहाँ उसके आलोचना of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड Nixon 's administration to deport him, while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million इकाई, और as लेखक, co-writer or यजमान, he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC पोल on the 100 महानतम britons voted उसे आठवीं, और in 2008, रोलिंग Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all time.
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 और into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of Fame in 1994.
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington, New York, not far from `` sunnyside ``, the घर of वॉशिंगटन इरविंग
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author Washington Irving published in 1819, as खूब as the नाम of the स्टोरी 's fictional protagonist.
Written while Irving was जीना in बर्मिंघम, इंग्लैण्ड, it थी part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains, Irving later admitted, `` When I wrote the स्टोरी, i था never महरूम on the catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी Awards, many significant records have been set.
This page only शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी awards won by various artists.
This does not include the विभिन्न खास पुरस्कार कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as Lifetime Achievement Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
The पेज however करता शामिल अन्य non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional अक्षर निर्मित and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens.
He is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके दो टेलीविज़न series and film series during the 1980s.
The childlike Pee-wee Herman अक्षर विकसित as a स्टेज अधिनियम कि quickly led to an HBO special in 1981.
As the stage performance gained further popularity, Reubens took the character to गति चित्र साथ Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985, toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children.
This प्रशस्त the रास्ता लिये pee-wee 's playhouse, an Emmy Award winning children 's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
another फिल्मी, बिग शीर्ष pee-wee, was released in 1988.
Due to negative media attention following a scandal in 1991, Reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s, और तब धीरे resurrected it दौरान the following decade.
It was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to लिखें a नई pee-wee फिल्मी, pee-wee 's playhouse : The Movie.
In June 2007, Reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first time since 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's यारों ' चुनाव Awards.
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends जीना in the fictional suburban कस्बा of पाइंट प्लेस, विस्कॉन्सिन, इससे may 17, 1976, to December 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox television network, पहला airing on अगस्त 23, 1998, कार्यशील for eight consecutive seasons, and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18, 2006.
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace, Mila kunis, एश्टन कूचर, डैनी masterson, लौरा Prepon, and Wilmer Valderrama.
The main adult cast members were Debra Jo Rupp, Kurtwood Smith, Don Stark and, दौरान the पहला तीन seasons, Tanya Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state स्तिथ in the midwestern संयुक्त States.
It is named after the Kansas River which flows through it, जिससे in फेरे थी नामित बाद the कंस देशी अमरीकी tribe, which inhabited the area.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is प्रायः कहा to औसत `` लोगों of the हवा '' or `` लोगों of the south wind, '' although this was probably not the term 's original meaning.
Residents of Kansas are पुकारा `` kansans. ''
For thousands of सालो कया is अभी कान्सास थी घर to numerous and diverse Native American tribes.
Tribes in the Eastern भाग of the राज्य generally lived in villages along the river valleys.
Tribes in the Western part of the state were सेमi- nomadic और hunted विशाल herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, but the pace of उपनिवेश त्वरित in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue.
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854, abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if कान्सास होता become a फ़्री राज्य or a स्लेव state.
Thus, the क्षेत्रफल थी a hotbed of हिंसा और chaos in its early days as these forces collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
The abolitionists eventually prevailed और on जनवरी 29, 1861, कान्सास entered the Union as a free state.
बाद the सिविल युद्ध, the जनसांख्यिकी of कान्सास grew rapidly, when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland.
आज, कान्सास is एक of the सबसे उत्पादक agricultural राज्य, producing high yields of wheat, sorghum and sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and the 33rd most populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
Psychology is an academic and applied discipline that involves the scientific पढ़ाई of दिमागी कृत्यों और व्यवहार.
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding individuals and groups by both establishing सामान्य सिद्धान्त और researching विशिष्ट मामले, और by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
In this field, a professional or शोधकर्ता is पुकारा a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be वर्गीकृत as a social, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the भूमिका of दिमागी कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत और सोशल बर्ताव, जबकि भी exploring the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors.
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception, cognition, attention, emotion, phenomenology, प्रेरणा, दिमाग कामकाज, व्यक्तित्व, behavior, and interpersonal relationships.
Psychologists of diverse stripes also consider the बेहोश दिमाग.
Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal और correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in opposition, to employing empirical and deductive methods, some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques.
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '', with psychological findings linking to शोध और perspectives इससे the सोशल sciences, प्राकृतिक sciences, आयुर्विज्ञान, और the मानवता, such as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and उपचार of दिमागी स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, it is भी निर्देशित towards समझना and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity.
the बहुमत of psychologists हैं शामिल in कुछ दयालु of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior, और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग or सिखा in other academic settings ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings, or in other areas such as human development and aging, sports, health, and the मीडिया, as खूब as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13, 1743 ( April 2, 1743 O.S. ) – July 4, 1826 ) थी an अमरीकी founding पिता, the प्रिंसिपल लेखक of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he served in the Continental Congress, representing Virginia and then served as a wartime राज्यपाल of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781 ).
Just after the war ended, इससे mid-1784 जेफरसन परोसा as a राजनयिक, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the United States मंत्री to फ़्रांस.
Jefferson was the first United States Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) सेवारत अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष George Washington.
With his close friend James Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican Party, और subsequently resigned इससे वॉशिंगटन 's cabinet.
Elected Vice President in 1796, when he came in second to John Adams of the Federalists, Jefferson opposed Adams and with Madison secretly wrote the Kentucky and वर्जिनिया रिज़ॉल्यूशन, जिससे attempted to nullify the एलियन और राजद्रोह Acts.
Elected president in what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800, he oversaw the खरीदें of the विशाल louisiana territory इससे फ़्रांस ( 1803 ), and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west.
His second term was beset with troubles at home, ऐसे as the विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of उसके former Vice President Aaron Burr.
With escalating trouble with Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening shipping at समुद्र, he आजमाया आर्थिक warfare साथ उसके embargo laws which only damaged American trade.
In 1803, President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana territory वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी, in अनुक्रम to खोलें lands लिये eventual अमरीकी settlers.
A leader in the Enlightenment, Jefferson was a polymath who spoke five languages fluently and was deeply interested in विज्ञान, आविष्कार, वास्तुकला, धर्म और दर्शनशास्त्र, रूचि कि led उसे to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency.
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre वृक्षारोपण निकट charlottesville, Virginia, which he named Monticello.
While not a notable orator, Jefferson was a skilled writer और corresponded साथ अनेक influential लोगों in अमेरिका and Europe throughout his adult life.
Though Jefferson owned many slaves, he opposed the संस्था सब उसके जीवन और नतीजतन treated and took care of them very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers.
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether जेफरसन थी the पिता of एक or अधिक children belonging to Sally Hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
Historians are also in disagreement with how much जेफरसन थी वचनबद्ध to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, President Jefferson signed into law a bill that banned the importation of स्लेव into the United States.
After Martha Jefferson, his wife of eleven years, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a widower for the rest of his life ; their विवाह उत्पादित छह children, of जिसको दो survived to adulthood.
Though Jefferson रै महरूम criticized by अनेक आधुनिक दिन विद्वानों over the issue of slavery, he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by Steven Van Zandt, produced by Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and अंकित by कलाकारों संयुक्त विरूद्ध रंगभेद to convey विपक्ष to the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी नीति of रंगभेद.
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved होता इंकार कोई और सब offers to perform at सूर्य नगर, a रिज़ॉर्ट जिससे थी स्तिथ in bantustan of Bophuthatswana, one of a number of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population.
This page is a list of characters in the पुलिस अकादमी फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न series.
Bill Russell won 11 championships साथ the Boston Celtics.
This is a सूची of एनबीए खिलाड़ी साथ most championships won as a player.
The National Basketball Association ( NBA ) is a प्रमुख पेशेवर बास्केट league in North America.
It was founded in 1946 as the बास्केट संघ of America ( BAA ).
The league adopted its current name at the start of the when it मिलाया साथ the नेशनल बास्केट लीग ( NBL ).
The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA और the निष्कर्ष of the sport 's postseason.
The winning team of the series receives the लैरी O'Brien Championship Trophy.
Players from the winning टोली प्रायः प्राप्त चैंपियनशिप बजती इससे the टोली honoring their contribution.
However, in some rare अवसर, the टीमों opted to दिया अन्य commemorative items, such as wrist watches, instead of rings.
The number of championships won by NBA superstars is often used as a मापन of उनके विशालता.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे एनबीए championships जीती साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान his 13-year playing career.
He won his first championship with the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स in उसके रुकी year.
Afterwards, he went on to जीत 10 championships in the अगला 12 years, including eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966.
He won the last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach.
Russell 's teammate, sam जोन्स, जीती 10 championships from 1959 to 1969, the second most in NBA history.
चार सेल्टिक्स खिलाड़ी, tom heinsohn, K. C. जोन्स, Satch Sanders and John Havlicek, won eight championships each.
दो अन्य सेल्टिक्स, जिम loscutoff और फ़्रैंक Ramsey, won seven championships each.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Michael जॉर्डन और scottie pippen, जीती six championships each.
Jordan and Pippen हैं सदस्यों of the शिकागो bulls team who won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s.
रॉबर्ट horry और जॉन salley हैं the only players to have won the championships with three different teams.
Horry won seven championships साथ the ह्यूस्टन rockets, the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स और the सैन अंतोनियो स्पर्स, जबकि salley जीती four championships with the Detroit Pistons, the Bulls and the Lakers.
फ़्रैंक शाऊल और स्टीव केर हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत दो championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons.
Saul जीती लगातार championships साथ the रोचेस्टर रॉयल्स and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, while Kerr won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of मापन परिणाम to the सच्चा मान, precision to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a measurement system is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a मात्रा to कि मात्रा 's वास्तविक ( true ) value.
The precision of a measurement system, also called reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to जिससे दोहराया measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results.
हालांकि the दो शब्द reproducibility और repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use, they are deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method.
A मापन प्रणाली can be सटीक लकिन नहीं precise, precise but not accurate, neither, or both.
For example, if an experiment contains a व्यवस्थित गलती, तब increasing the sample size generally increases precision but does not improve accuracy.
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of results from the flawed experiment.
eliminating the व्यवस्थित error improves accuracy but does not change precision.
A measurement system is designated मान्य if it is दोनो सटीक and precise.
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a factor or कारकों unrelated to the स्वतंत्र परिवर्तनीय ) और गलती ( random variability ).
The terminology is also applied to indirect measurements—that is, values प्राप्त by a कम्प्यूटेशनल कार्यविधि from observed data.
In addition to सटीकता और परिशुद्धता, माप may भी have a measurement resolution, which is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement.
In the case of full reproducibility, ऐसे as जब rounding a क्रमांक to a representable फ्लोटिंग पाइंट क्रमांक, the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand, so it is used as a measure लिये the सापेक्ष सटीकता साथ जिससे an मनमानी number can be represented.
Fuck in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The origin of the शब्द is obscure.
It is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably पुरानी.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There are अनेक आम वाक्यांश जिससे मेक उपयोग of the शब्द, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Animated, color-coded मैप प्रर्दशित the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention and model, some continents may be संचित or subdivided : लिये उदाहरण, यूरेशिया is सबसे प्रायः subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ), while North and South America are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ).
A continent is एक of अनेक बहुत विशाल landmasses on Earth.
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to सात regions commonly regarded as continents—they हैं ( इससे largest in आकार to smallest ) : एशिया, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.
In geology, महाद्वीपों हैं वर्णित by means of tectonic plates.
Plate tectonics is the process and study of the गति, टक्कर और प्रभाग of continents, earlier known as continental drift.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 फिल्मी परिचय a समूह of underground motorcycle drag racers.
It stars Laurence Fishburne, Djimon Hounsou, Derek Luke, Meagan Good, and Larenz टेट और is लिखा और निर्देशित by reggie चट्टान bythewood.
It also features Lisa Bonet, Orlando Jones, बच्चा चट्टान और वैनेसा घंटी calloway.
For the स्टील पैंथर song, see Feel the Steel.
Community property is a marital property regime that originated in civil law jurisdictions and is अभी भी मिला in कुछ आम विधि jurisdictions.
The states of the United राज्य कि recognize जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी हैं primarily in the वेस्ट ; it थी inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system, which itself was inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths.
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली of acquests और gains, जिससे replaced the परंपरागत फ्रेंच जातियाँ of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
Map of the United राज्य साथ जातियाँ property states highlighted in red.
In addition to the highlighted राज्य, अलास्का is a separate property state that permits couples to opt into a community property arrangement.
In a community property jurisdiction, most प्रॉपर्टी acquired दौरान the विवाह ( मगर लिये उपहार or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ, or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment or death.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the अनुपस्थिति of विशिष्ट प्रमाण कि होता पाइंट to a contrary conclusion for a particular piece of property.
Division of community property may take place by item, by splitting सब वस्तुएं or by value.
In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 प्रभाग of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी is सख्ती mandated by statute, meaning that the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, ऐसे as टेक्सास, a तलाक अदालत may डिक्री an `` निष्पक्ष distribution `` of community property, which may result in an unequal division of such.
In non-community प्रॉपर्टी states property may be divided by equitable distribution.
Generally speaking, the property that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift, bequest or devise during विवाह is पुकारा पृथक प्रॉपर्टी ( i.e., नहीं जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी ).
See division of प्रॉपर्टी.
Division of community debts may नहीं be the वही as division of community property.
For example, in California, community property is required to be divided `` बराबर '' जबकि जातियाँ कर्ज़ is जरूरी to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by एक जीवनसाथी पहले the marriage is the separate property of that spouse, unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property.
The rules for this vary इससे क्षेत्राधिकार to jurisdiction.
The ड्यूक और duchess of कैम्ब्रिज हिलाता to the crowd at The Mall shortly after the wedding.
The wedding of Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and Catherine Middleton took place on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी in London.
The groom, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, is the eldest son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and is second in the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन और the तख्तों of fifteen other Commonwealth realms.
The bride, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the ज्येष्ठ of तीन children of माइकल और carole मिडलटन of Bucklebury, Berkshire.
The Dean of Westminster, John Hall, presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan विलियम्स, conducted the विवाह ; रिचर्ड chartres, the बिशप of लंदन, preached the उपदेश ; और a पढना थी दिए by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's बेहतरीन man थी उसके bhai, प्रिंस Harry, while the bride 's sister, Pippa, was maid of honour.
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's और दूल्हे 's परिवारों, as खूब as अनेक विदेशी royals, diplomats, and the couple 's chosen personal guests.
After the ceremony, the couple बना the परंपरागत रूप on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to the सिंहासन, the विवाह थी नहीं a पूरा state occasion and many details were left to the couple to decide, such as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
Prince William और केट मिडलटन met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 October 2010 थी घोषित on 16 November 2010.
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much media attention, being compared in many ways with the 1981 विवाह of विलियम 's अभिभावक.
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured many ceremonial aspects, including use of the राज्य carriages और भूमिकाएँ लिये the पैर Guards and Household Cavalry.
Events were held around the Commonwealth to चिह्नित the विवाह ; संगठनों और होटल आयोजित कार्यक्रम आरपार कनाडा, over 5,000 गली पार्टियों यहूद held throughout the United Kingdom, and one million people lined the route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed सजीव by tens of लाखो अधिक around the world, including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel.
In the United Kingdom, टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक, साथ a कुल of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व, television host, fashion model, and actress.
Minnillo was भी नामित मिस टीन USA in 1998.
She has been a New York -based correspondent for Entertainment tonight और hosted कुल निवेदन Live on MTV.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the समाप्त of an भुजा or forelimb of primates और humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs.
A few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which has दो opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` हाथ '' और फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably समान to इंसान फिंगरप्रिंट ) हैं प्रायः described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
हैंड्स हैं the प्रमुख structures लिये physically manipulating the environment, used for both gross motor skills ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ).
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of तंत्रिका endings on the देह, हैं the richest सोर्स of tactile प्रतिक्रिया, और have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands.
Like other paired organs ( eyes, feet, legs ), each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere, so that handedness, or the preferred hand choice for single-handed क्रियाएँ ऐसे as लिखने साथ a पेंसिल, reflects व्यक्तिगत दिमाग कामकाज.
कुछ विकासवादी anatomists उपयोग the पद हाथ to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example, in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand.
The human hand has 27 bones, not सहित the sesamoid हड्डियों जिससे क्रमांक varies between people.
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal, इंटरमीडिएट and distal ) of the fingers.
The metacarpals हैं the हड्डियों कि connects the fingers and the wrist.
प्रत्येक इंसान हाथ रै 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones.
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team and former गुट सबसे notably क्रियाशील in संसार कुश्ती federation/entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004.
Basic digital alarm क्लॉक बगैर a radio.
the चिह्नित in the top-left of the display indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 radio alarm clock ( Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an जल्दी mechanical-digital प्रदर्शक.
A digital clock is a type of clock that displays the time digitally, i.e. in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों, as opposed to an analog clock, where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.
Digital clocks are often associated with electronic drives, but the `` digital '' वर्णन refers तभी to the प्रदर्शक, नहीं to the ड्राइव mechanism.
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, but `` clockwork '' mechanisms साथ डिजिटल प्रदर्शक are rare. )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time Level '' ) on the television मीनार rheinturm düsseldorf, जर्मनी.
Family Guy निर्माता सेठ macfarlane भी provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin, and Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं, और numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis ( who replaced लेसी chabert बाद the पहला ऋतु ) और माइक हेनरी और अभी, the नई कर्ता beau ओसबोर्न.
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton, Adam West, John G. ब्रेनन, निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide voices for अनेक वर्ण.
The voice actors, in portraying the various अक्षर personalities on the show, draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture.
Family Guy वर्ण have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक actor, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here show the एवोल्यूशन of the खेल 's कलाकृति और डिजाइन in the संयुक्त States from 1935–2005.
The history of the board खेल एकाधिकार can be traced back to the early 20th century.
The earliest known design was by the American, एलिज़ाबेथ magie, patented in 1904 लकिन मौजूदा as early as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle, namely the georgist concept of a single land value tax.
A series of board games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s that शामिल the खरीदे और selling of जमीन और the विकास of that land.
By 1934, a फलक खेल था महरूम निर्मित much जैसे the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers and its related companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
Several people, mostly in the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य and near the East Coast, contributed to the game 's design and evolution.
By the 1970s, the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it थी मुद्रित in the खेल 's निर्देश लिये अनेक सालो, in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार, और थी cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007.
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली खेल थी निर्मित in the 1800s, और नहीं acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game, and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers.
Also in the 1970s, Professor Ralph Anspach, जो था खुद प्रकाशित a फलक खेल intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies and trust busting, fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
Through the research of anspach और अन्य, much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered ''.
Anspach confronted maxine ब्रैडी, लेखक of the 1974 किताब the Monopoly Book : Strategy and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the actual history of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975.
Because of the lengthy अदालत प्रक्रम, सहित appeals, the legal status of Parker Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of पार्कर भाइयो, as do इसके विशिष्ट डिज़ाइन elements.
At the conclusion of the court case, the game 's logo and ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन तत्व became भाग of a larger एकाधिकार ब्रांड, licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety of items through the present day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board खेल 's जल्दी इतिहास in the 1970s और 1980s, और अनेक किताबे और जर्नल आलेख on the विषय, हास्ब्रो ( पार्कर भाइयो ' वर्तमान जनक company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012.
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone अन्य than darrow in सामग्री प्रकाशित or प्रायोजित by them, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, first आयोजित in the जल्दी 1970s, continue to the present, with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off board games and card games appeared on दोनो पहलू of the Atlantic Ocean.
In 1989, the first of many वीडियो खेल और कंप्यूटर game editions was published.
Since 1994, many official variants of the खेल, आधारित on स्थितियाँ अन्य than अटलांटिक नगर, नई जर्सी ( the आधिकारिक U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting, excepting Canada ), have been published by Hasbro or its licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S. Edition of the game to match the uk संस्करण, हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the Atlantic City property names.
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr. एकाधिकार '' अक्षर a 3-d computer-generated dekh, जिससे रै चूंकि been adopted by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves and Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The आचमन संस्करण by जीतना चालें खेल, in संस्करण उत्पादित directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ).
In baseball, a बलिदान मक्खी is a batted ball that satisfies four criteria:
There are fewer than two outs जब the बॉल is hit.
The ball is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ), or to infield बेईमानी territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the बॉल on the मक्खी ( alternatively if the batter would have been out if not for an error or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ).
A runner who is already on आधार स्कोर on the play.
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly क्युकी the बैटर presumably intends to कारण a teammate to score a run, while sacrificing his own ability to do so.
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. state located in the midwestern United States.
Minnesota was carved आउट of the पूर्वी हाफ of the मिनेसोटा territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
Known as the `` जमीन of 10,000 झीलों '', the राज्य 's name comes from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water ''.
Those waters, साथ साथ वनों, पार्क, और wilderness क्षेत्रों, offer residents and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive और the 21st most populous of the U.S. states.
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( ज्ञात as the `` जुड़वा शहरों '' ), the बीच of परिवहन, कारोबार, उद्योग, शिक्षा, government and home to an internationally known arts community.
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast, अभी साफ, farmed और settled ; और the कम populated North Woods, used for mining, forestry, and recreation.
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political orientations, और रै a ऊँची रेट of civic participation and voter turnout.
मिनेसोटा बाँधने among the healthiest राज्य, और has a highly literate population.
The large majority of निवासियों हैं of scandinavian and German descent.
The state is known as a center of scandinavian अमरीकी culture.
Ethnic diversity has increased in हाल दशकों.
Substantial influxes of एशियाई, अफ़्रीकी, और लैटिन अमरीकी आप्रवासियों have joined the descendants of European settlers and the original Native American inhabitants.
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ), often a सरकारी विभाग, निगम, न्यास or विश्वास, to a, प्रायः ( लकिन नहीं सदा ) a nonprofit entity, educational institution, business or an individual.
In order to receive a grant, some form of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a प्रस्ताव or an अनुप्रयोग is usually required.
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and आवश्यकता कुछ स्तर of अनुपालन और रिपोर्टिंग.
the ग्रान्ट लिखने प्रक्रम involves an आवेदक submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder, either on the applicant 's own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, such as पीड़ितों of प्राकृतिक आपदाओं or individuals who seek to open a small business.
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some रूप of tax-exempt औकात, be a पंजीकृत nonprofit संगठन or a local government.
For example, tiered funding for a freeway are very large अनुदान negotiated at सरकारी नीति level.
However smaller grants may be provided by a सरकारी agency ( e.g. municipal government ).
project-related funding involving सरकारें, कारोबार, समुदायों, और individuals is often arranged by application either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have महरूम characterized साथ the सबसे stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो, 57co साथ a half-life of 271.79 days, 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days, and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are कम than 18 घंटों और the बहुमत of ये have half-lives that are less than 1 second.
This element also has 11 मेटा राज्य, सब of जिससे have half-lives कम than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of cobalt range in परमाणु वज़न from 47Co to 75Co.
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope, 59Co, is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the प्राथमिक विधि of क्षय लिये those of वृहद than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay.
The primary decay products before 59Co are iron isotopes and the primary उत्पाद बाद हैं निकल isotopes.
मानक परमाणु mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who Moved My चीज ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, published in 1998, is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर जॉनसन लिखा in the style of a parable or business fable.
It describes change in one 's work and life, and four typical प्रतिक्रियाएँ to कहा बदलें by दो चूहे और two `` littlepeople '', during their hunt for cheese.
A New यॉर्क टाइम्स कारोबार बेस्टसेलर since release, Who Moved My Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost five years and खर्च over 200 सप्ताह on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list.
It has sold more than 26 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी in 37 भाषाएं and remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
Nikita sergeyevich khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War.
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964, और as अध्यक्ष of the परिषद of मंत्रियों, or Premier, from 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union, for backing the progress of the early Soviet space program, and for अनेक अपेक्षाकृत उदार reforms in क्षेत्रों of घरेलू नीति.
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964, replacing him साथ लियोनिद brezhnev as पहला सचिव और एलेक्सी kosygin as प्रीमियर.
Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of kalinovka in 1894, बंद to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine.
He was employed as a metalworker in उसके युवावस्था, और दौरान the Russian Civil War was a political commissar.
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich, he worked उसके रास्ता up the सोवियत पदानुक्रम.
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges, and स्वीकृत हज़ारों of रखवाले.
In 1939, स्टालिन भेजा उसे to govern युक्त, और he continued the purges there.
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World युद्ध ii ), khrushchev थी again a commissar, सेवारत as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
Khrushchev was present at the खूनी रक्षा of stalingrad, a fact he took great pride in throughout his life.
After the युद्ध, he लौटे to युक्त पहले होने recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the शक्ति संघर्ष triggered by स्टालिन 's death in 1953, Khrushchev, after several years, emerged victorious.
On February 25, 1956, at the 20th Party Congress, he delivered the `` रहस्य वाक, '' denouncing स्टालिन 's purges और ushering in a कम repressive era in the Soviet Union.
His domestic नीतियों, aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary citizens, were often ineffective, especially in the area of agriculture.
Hoping eventually to rely on मिसाइलें लिये नेशनल रक्षा, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, khrushchev 's नियम देखी the tensest years of the Cold War, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, particularly by his उभरते विरोधियों, जो चुपचाप रोज़ in शक्ति और अपदस्थ उसे in October 1964.
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of सोवियत शक्ति struggles, but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs were smuggled to the वेस्ट और published in part in 1970.
Khrushchev died in 1971 of दिल बीमारी.
Upper gastrointestinal ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract.
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the स्नायु of treitz, जिससे connects the चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies, and require प्रवेश to हॉस्पिटल लिये तात्कालिक diagnosis and management.
Due to advances in medications और endoscopy, अपर GI hemorrhage is now usually treated without surgery.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( red, orange, green ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in blue.
According to the highest estimate, the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल number of living humans on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य Census Bureau ( USCB ).
The USCB estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population निधि, it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The उच्चतम दरों of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s, and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million, and are now expected to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a steady decline in the population growth rate ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Philips Lumileds Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a चौड़ी दायरा of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a now a fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग of Philips Lighting.
Knuckle mnemonic लिये the क्रमांक of दिनों in प्रत्येक month of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day माह.
A mnemonic (, with a silent `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is any सीखना तकनीक कि एड्स सूचना retention.
Mnemonics aim to translate सूचना into a रूप कि the इंसान दिमाग can retain better than its original form.
Even the प्रक्रम of applying इस परिवर्तन might already aid the transfer of information to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form, such as short poems, acronyms, or memorable phrases, but mnemonics can भी be लिये अन्य प्रकार of सूचना और in visual or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, आश्चर्यजनक, शारीरिक, यौन, humorous, or otherwise 'relatable ' information, rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information.
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), meaning `` of मेमोरी '' और is सम्बन्धित to mnemosyne ( `` स्मरण '' ), the नाम of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology.
Both of these शब्द हैं निकला इससे μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` remembrance, memory ''.
Mnemonics in प्राचीनता यहूद सबसे प्रायः माना in the context of what is today known as the Art of memory.
प्राचीन Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of memory : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory.
The former is inborn, and is the one कि everyone उपयोग automatically and without thinking.
The कृत्रिम मेमोरी in कंट्रास्ट रै to be प्रशिक्षित और developed through the learning and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques.
Mnemonic systems are special techniques or strategies consciously प्रयुक्त to improve मेमोरी, it helps employ सूचना already भंडारित in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task.
President Bush signing the No Child Left पीछे अधिनियम at हैमिल्टन h.s. in हैमिल्टन, Ohio.
The No Child Left पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 ( nclb ) is a संयुक्त राज्य अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the elementary और Secondary Education Act, which included Title I, the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students.
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable लक्ष्य can improve व्यक्तिगत outcomes in शिक्षा.
The Act requires states to develop आकलन in मौलिक skills.
States जरूर दे ये आकलन to सब विद्यार्थी at चुनें ग्रेड levels in order to receive federal school funding.
The Act does not assert a national achievement standard ; मानकों हैं नियत by प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत राज्य.
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual testing, annual academic progress, report cards, टीचर योग्यता, और funding परिवर्तन.
The bill passed in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस साथ bipartisan support.
Dodge B Series यूटिलिटी circa 1950, चलित by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, प्रायः बस referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट मोटर vehicle with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is प्रयुक्त लिये लाइट ट्रक साथ a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as लिये coupé utility vehicles, often based on a personal car chassis, but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to पिकअप, ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई Zealand, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large पिकअप ट्रक हैं somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय, जहाँ वैन and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with मेहराबदार गर्दन, परिष्कृत सिर और सुरुचिपूर्ण gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in आकार, निर्माण और नस्ल इससे the आधुनिक घोड़ा, और were, on average, smaller.
They were also more central to society than उनके आधुनिक counterparts, होने अनिवार्य लिये युद्ध, agriculture, and transport.
Consequently, विशिष्ट प्रकार of घोड़ा developed, many of which have no modern equivalent.
जबकि an समझना of आधुनिक घोड़ा breeds और equestrianism is vital लिये कोई विश्लेषण of the मध्यकालीन horse, researchers also need to consider documentary ( both written and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence.
घोड़े in the मध्य आयु यहूद rarely differentiated by breed, but rather by use.
This led them to be described, for example, as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध घोड़े ), `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ), cart horses or packhorses.
Reference is also given to their place of origin, such as `` स्पेनी घोड़े, '' लकिन whether इस referred to one breed or several is unknown.
Another difficulty arising दौरान कोई पढ़ाई of मध्यकालीन documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages, where several words can be used for one thing ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by one word ).
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even भीतर एक दस्तावेज़ ), और जहाँ एक epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological अग्रिम in घुड़सवार उपकरण, प्रायः introduced इससे अन्य संस्कृतियों, allowed for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
In particular, improved designs for the solid-treed काठी as खूब as the आगमन of the रकाब, नाल और घोड़ा कॉलर यहूद significant अग्रिम in medieval society.
Consequently, the assumptions and theories विकसित by इतिहासकारों हैं नहीं निर्णायक, और बहस स्टिल rages on अनेक मुद्दे, ऐसे as the breeding or size of the horse, and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject.
The म्यूज़िक man is a musical with book, music, and lyrics by Meredith Willson, based on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey.
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill, who poses as a boys ' band organizer and leader and sells band यंत्र और वर्दी to भोली townsfolk पहले skipping कस्बा साथ the cash.
In River City, Iowa, prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him, but when Hill helps उसके younger bhai overcome उसके भय of सोशल interactions due to his lisp, Marian begins to fall in love with Harold.
Harold, in turn falling for marian, risks होने caught to win her.
In 1957, the show became a hit on Broadway, जीतना पाँच टोनी पुरस्कार, सहित Best Musical, and running for 1,375 performances.
The cast album won the first ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये `` बेहतरीन असली डाल एल्बम '' and was number one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks.
The show 's success led to revivals and a लोकप्रिय 1962 फिल्मी अनुकूलन and a 2003 television remake.
It अक्सर is उत्पादित by both professional and amateur theater companies.
Surveyor 's व्हील
A surveyor 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle व्हील, measuring wheel, or perambulator is a device for measuring distance.
Largest non-polar रेगिस्तान
Sand dunes in the rub ' al खली ( `` खाली quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
Makhtesh रेमन, negev desert, Israel
A desert is a landscape or प्रदेश of जमीन कि is बहुत शुष्क क्युकी of कम वर्षा amounts ( वर्षण ), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas.
Deserts can also be described as क्षेत्रों जहाँ अधिक जल is खोया by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert plants must have special adaptations to जीवित साथ इस छोटी जल.
Deserts generally receive कम than 25 cm of बरसात ( वर्षण ) each year.
Semideserts or steppes are regions जिससे प्राप्त between and.
In the Köppen जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान are classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the thornthwaite जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली, रेगिस्तान would be classified as arid megathermal climates.
World War I ( WWI ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the पहला संसार युद्ध or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : इटली, जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military personnel, including 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various political changes, such as revolutions in अनेक of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via their colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians, but was रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
इटली और बुल्गारिया went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major imperial powers—the German, Russian, austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to exist.
the successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a great amount of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe थी redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 song originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper.
It was the first major single released by Lauper as a solo artist and the lead-off single from her डेब्यू एल्बम वो 's so असामान्य.
Lauper’s संस्करण gained मान्यता as a feminist anthem and promoted by an award-winning video.
It has been covered on either an एल्बम or in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 other artists.
The सिंगल थी lauper 's भेदन hit, reaching # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
It remains one of lauper 's हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी a widely लोकप्रिय song during the era of its release, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` Rolling स्टोन : `` the 100 शीर्ष म्यूज़िक वीडियो '' '' और the `` vh1 : 100 महानतम वीडियो '' सूचियाँ क्रमित the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, respectively.
The song received a Grammy Award nomination लिये रिकार्ड of the साल और बेहतरीन मादा Pop Vocal Performance.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति and placement.
Defibrillation is a आम उपचार लिये life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows सामान्य sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, known as automated बाह्य defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the निदान of treatable लय, अर्थ that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
The Cato Institute is an अमरीकी libertarian सोचो टैंक headquartered in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard, Ed Crane and Charles Koch, अध्यक्ष of the फलक और मुख्य कार्यपालिका officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries, Inc..
In July 1976, the name थी बदला to the केटो Institute.
According to the 2011 वैश्विक go to सोचो टैंक अनुक्रमणिका, केटो is the 6th सबसे influential US based think tank, ranking 3rd in Economic Policy and 2nd in Social Policy.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the समझना of पब्लिक नीतियों आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of सीमित सरकारी, फ़्री markets, individual liberty, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, promote, and disseminate लागू नीति प्रस्ताव that create free, open, and civil societies in the United States and throughout the world. ''
Cato scholars were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे, सहित the इराकी युद्ध, सिविल लिबर्टीज, शिक्षा, agriculture, energy policy, and excessive government spending.
On other issues, they supported Bush administration initiatives, most notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह, सोशल सुरक्षा, वैश्विक वार्मिंग, tax policy, and immigration.
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, Cato विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party उम्मीदवार, John McCain and Barack Obama.
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since उसके उद्घाटन, ऐसे as फिस्कल stimulus, healthcare सुधार, विदेशी नीति, और the युद्ध on दवाएँ, while supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy.
ड्रैकुला is an 1897 गोथिक हॉरर novel by Irish author Bram Stoker.
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula, the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate इससे transylvania to इंग्लैण्ड, और the बैटल between ड्रैकुला और a छोटी group of men and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula has been assigned to many literary genres including पिशाच साहित्य, हॉरर fiction, the gothic novel and invasion literature.
The novel छू on विषयवस्तु ऐसे as the role of women in Victorian culture, sexual conventions, immigration, colonialism, and post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire, he defined its modern form, and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical, film and टेलीविज़न interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter ब्रह्मांड, और is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels and movies.
It is an अत्यधिक अशिष्ट लकिन बहुत लोकप्रिय semi-contact खेल, played by wizards and witches.
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks, using चार गेंदें और छह elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य, तीन on प्रत्येक पक्ष of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following समान to the स्थिति कि संघ फ़ुटबॉल holds as a globally popular sport.
The sport is monumental throughout the wizarding world.
Harry plays an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति लिये उसके हाउस टोली at हॉग्वार्ट्स : he is the seeker and becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
क्षेत्रीय और अंतरराष्ट्रीय competitions are mentioned throughout the series.
In Goblet of Fire, Quidditch at हॉग्वार्ट्स is रद्द लिये the Tri-Wizard Tournament, but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the पहला कार्य of the tri-wizard टूर्नामेंट ), to कैप्चर a उड़ती कुंजी in पारस 's स्टोन, और on दो कुंजी अवसरों in deathly hallows — getting थाम of ravenclaw 's Diadem, and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air.
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks, the Nimbus 2000 and the firebolt, दोनो of जिससे हैं नष्ट by the series ' end.
The game has been adopted in the real world in the रूप of मगलू quidditch.
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting of दो घरों : the निम्नतर हाउस known as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate.
कॉंग्रेस meets in the कैपिटल in Washington, D.C.
Both representatives and senators are chosen through सीधा चुनाव.
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435 members in the House of प्रतिनिधि और 100 सदस्यों in the सीनेट.
Members of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year terms representing the people of a district.
Congressional districts हैं apportioned to राज्य by जनसांख्यिकी using the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी results, each state in the union having at least one representative in the House of Representatives.
Regardless of population, each of the 50 states has दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक serve a six-year पद.
The terms are लड़खड़ाते so प्रत्येक दो सालो लगभग one-third of the Senate is up for election.
Each लड़खड़ाते समूह of one-third of the senators are called 'classes '.
No राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य has two senators from the same class.
Most incumbents seek re-election, और उनके ऐतिहासिक likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
In August 2012, a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s approval दरजा amongst अमेरिकी थी at 10 %, matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the title of a song written by Joey + Rory 's Rory Lee Feek, Wynn Varble, and Don Poythress, और अंकित by अमरीकी देश कलाकार ईस्टन Corbin.
it थी released in अगस्त 2009 as कोर्बिन 's debut single and is included on his self-titled debut album.
In April 2010, the सोंग पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the देश म्यूज़िक charts, making Corbin the first male solo artist in seven years to send a debut single to Number One.
It has been certified सुनहरा by the RIAA.
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld devices and services designed and marketed by शोध in गति सीमित ( रिम ) ऑपरेटिंग as BlackBerry.
The first BlackBerry device, an email पेजर, थी released in 1999 ; the सबसे हाल ब्लैकबेरी डिवाइस, the Z10 and Q10, were announced on January 30, 2013.
The user interface varies by मॉडल ; सबसे विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी कुंजीपटल, जबकि नए generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
A BlackBerry can shoot video, take photos, खेल म्यूज़िक, और perform ऑनलाइन functions such as web-browsing and emailing.
They can also send and receive push ईमेल और तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची level of security through on-device message encryption, and are designed to function as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry devices support a large किस्में of तत्काल messaging सुविधाएँ, साथ the सबसे लोकप्रिय होने the मालिकाना BlackBerry Messenger service.
The BlackBerry PlayBook is a tablet computer offered by the कम्पनी.
The 100 millionth ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफोन थी shipped in जून क्वार्टर of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in September quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री विश्वव्यापी in 2011, बनाना इसके manufacturer the sixth most popular device maker ( 25 % of mobile device sales are smartphones ).
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is available in 91 देशों विश्वव्यापी on over 500 मोबाईल सेवा ऑपरेटर using various mobile technologies.
As of September 2012, there were eighty million सदस्य विश्वव्यापी to ब्लैकबेरी.
In 2011 the Caribbean और लैटिन अमेरिका था the उच्चतम penetrations of ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफ़ोन worldwide, with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
BlackBerry, iPhone, एंड्रॉइड, और खिड़कियाँ फोन are considered the four major smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United राज्य, जिससे alludes to इसके excessive उपयोग by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's नई संसार कॉलेज Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year. ''
An example of a माँग curve shifting.
The shift from D1 To D2 means an increase in demand with consequences लिये the अन्य परिवर्तनीय
In economics, the demand curve is the graph depicting the संबंध between the price of a certain commodity and the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price.
It is a ग्राफिक प्रतिनिधित्व of a demand schedule.
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the demand curve of every individual consumer : the व्यक्तिगत मांगे at प्रत्येक दाम हैं added साथ.
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium price ( the price at which sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as buyers together are willing to buy, also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the राशि of कि शुभ or सेवा कि होगा be उत्पादित और खरीदा बगैर surplus/excess सप्लाई or shortage/excess माँग ) of that market.
In a monopolistic market, the demand curve facing the monopolist is बस the मार्केट demand curve.
historia
by Nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by छानबीन '' ) is an छतरियाँ पद कि relates to past events as well as the discovery, collection, organization, and presentation of information about these events.
The term includes cosmic, भूगर्भिक, और सशुल्क इतिहास, but is often generically implied to mean human history.
Scholars who लिखें परिचय इतिहास are called historians.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a कथा to जाँचें और analyse a अनुक्रम of पास्ट कार्यक्रम, और objectively determine the पैटर्न of cause and effect that determine them.
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in itself और as a रास्ता of providing `` परिप्रेक्ष्य '' on the समस्याएं of the present.
Stories common to a particular संस्कृति, लकिन नहीं समर्थित by बाह्य स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as the किस्से surrounding किंग आर्थर ) हैं प्रायः वर्गीकृत as cultural heritage or legends, because they do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history.
Events occurring prior to लिखा रिकार्ड हैं considered prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek historian is considered within the Western परंपरा to be the `` पिता of इतिहास '', और, साथ साथ उसके समकालीन thucydides, helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history.
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused thucydides remains a पाइंट of contention or approach in modern historical writing.
In the Eastern tradition, a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled from as early as 722 BCE हालांकि तभी 2nd सदी bce ग्रन्थ survived.
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of history which have विकसित over the सदियां और continue to बदलें today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, and includes the study of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical or thematical elements of historical investigation.
Often history is taught as part of primary and secondary education, and the academic study of इतिहास is a प्रमुख अनुशासन in विश्वविद्यालयों अध्ययन.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an african-american मुस्लिम मंत्री और इंसान rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans.
Detractors accused him of preaching racism, ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता, और हिंसा.
He has been called one of the greatest and most influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, और at तनिक एक of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, his mother was placed in a mental hospital, and he was लगाई in a श्रेणी of फोस्टर घरों.
In 1946, at age 20, he गई to थाना for breaking and entering.
in थाना, मैल्कम x became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam सिर इलियास मुहम्मद led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the मध्य ईस्ट, he लौटे to the संयुक्त राज्य, where he founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the स्वदेश of islam, he थी assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially over time.
As a spokesman लिये the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated विरह of ब्लैक और श्वेत Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it, `` i किया many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ, he जारी to emphasize pan-africanism, ब्लैक self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, jr. ( born कूच 28, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी banker who served as the 74th United States Secretary of the Treasury.
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs, and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute, which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable आर्थिक विकास और a क्लीनर पर्यावरण around the संसार, साथ an आरंभिक फ़ोकस on the United States and China.
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying हार्डवेयर, जिससे is प्रस्तुत to the अनुप्रयोग layer of the system.
Virtual machines may be based on specifications of a hypothetical computer or emulate the कंप्यूटर वास्तुकला और कृत्यों of a real world computer.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among all other groups of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica, and have become स्थापित in nearly प्रत्येक habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 मकड़ी प्रजाति, और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा all these families should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata, the cephalothorax और उदर, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike insects, मकड़ियों do not have antennae.
In all except the most primitive group, the mesothelae, मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike most arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, आकार and the amount of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, and spiders that उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant और विविध than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about, but these animals जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have महरूम मिला in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे, and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी, ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य मकड़ियों, हालांकि a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders उपयोग a चौड़ी दायरा of रणनीति to कैप्चर शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it with sticky bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
सबसे detect शिकार मुख्यतः by संवेदन कंपन, लकिन the active hunters have acute vision, and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as वे do not have true jaws.
Male spiders पहचानो themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species survive a few matings, limited mainly by उनके छोटी life spans.
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases, प्रत्येक of which may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care for their young, for example by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of species are social, building सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere इससे a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social बर्ताव सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration, as in the widow spiders, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas and अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to इंसानो, वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials, and spider silk genes have been inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13, 1960 ) is a fictional अक्षर and one of the two female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s Show, appearing in all eight seasons.
Portrayed by लौरा prepon, Donna is the love interest to Eric Forman.
US county household मध्य income 2009.
Median us household income, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the आय of every resident over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, child support payments received, regular rental receipts, as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of आय प्राप्त routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it रै चूंकि महरूम flat and even decreased recently.
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United राज्य, अर्थ households जीना on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The निवासियों of the household do नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the use of household आय remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or भी impossible.
A registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, in United States business law, is a business or individual designated to प्राप्त सेवा of प्रक्रम ( sop ) जब a कारोबार एंटिटी is a पार्टी in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons.
the पंजीकृत एजेंट 's पता may भी be जहाँ the राज्य होगा send the paperwork for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter.
The registered agent for a business entity may be an व्यक्तिगत सदस्य of the कम्पनी, or ( अधिक often ) a third party, such as the organization 's lawyer or a service company.
Failure to properly maintain a पंजीकृत एजेंट can affect a company negatively.
Office for आपात प्रबन्धन.
Office of War सूचना war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with जिससे सब इंसान beings हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता लिये उनके सुरक्षा of जिससे वे संस्थान governments.
Fencing, is typically विभाजित into ओलम्पिक fencing, Classical fencing and historical fencing,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly पुकारा ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी or प्रतिस्पर्धी fencing ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the same three हथियार, लकिन approaches तलवारबाजी as a martial आर्ट.
Competitive Fencing is one of five sports which has been featured at every one of the modern ओलम्पिक खेल, the अन्य चार होने एथलेटिक्स, साइकिलिंग, Swimming, and Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ), also called simply the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a विशाल मांसपेशी समूह कि शामिल the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh.
It is the great extensor muscle of the घुटना, forming a विशाल मांसल द्रव्यमान जिससे कवर the front and sides of the femur.
The proper Latin plural form of the क्रियाशील quadriceps होता be quadricipites.
In modern English उपयोग, quadriceps is प्रयुक्त in दोनो एकवचन and plural.
The singular form quadricep, produced by hypercorrection, is अक्सर प्रयुक्त.
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 after colliding साथ an हिमशैल दौरान उसके maiden voyage इससे southampton, UK to New York City, US.
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 लोगों in एक of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history.
The RMS टाइटैनिक थी the largest जलयान afloat at the time of her maiden voyage.
वो थी the दूसरी of तीन ओलम्पिक क्लास समंदर liners संचालित by the श्वेत स्टार Line, and she was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews, who perished with the ship, as her naval architect.
On her maiden voyage, she carried 2,224 यात्री और क्रू.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her passengers शामिल कुछ of the wealthiest लोगों in the संसार, as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants from Great Britain and Ireland, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America.
The जलयान थी designed to be the पिछला शब्द in सुकून और लक्ज़री, with an on-board gymnasium, swimming pool, libraries, high-class restaurants and opulent cabins.
She also had a powerful wireless telegraph provided for the convenience of यात्री as खूब as लिये operational use.
Though she had advanced safety सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight doors, she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats लिये 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage, and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, Titanic called at Cherbourg in France and Queenstown ( now cobh ) in आयरलैंड पहले heading westwards towards नई York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the क्रासिंग और परिचय 375 मील ( 600 km ) south of Newfoundland, she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship 's time.
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard side and opened पाँच of उसके सोलह watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water.
Meanwhile, passengers और कुछ क्रू सदस्यों यहूद evacuated in lifeboats, अनेक of which were launched only partly loaded.
A disproportionate number of men were left aboard because of a `` women and children first `` protocol followed by some of the अधिकारियों लदान the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, she broke apart and foundered, साथ खूब over एक हजार people still aboard.
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered, the Cunard liner RMS Carpathia arrived on the scene of the डूब, जहाँ she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors.
The disaster was greeted साथ विश्वव्यापी शॉक और आक्रोश at the huge loss of life and the regulatory and operational failures that had led to it.
Public inquiries in Britain and the United States led to major improvements in मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा.
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ( solas ), जिससे स्टिल governs मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा today.
additionally, अनेक नई बेतार regulations were passed around the world in an effort to learn from the many missteps in wireless communications -- -which could have saved many more passengers.
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and were left destitute ; many families, विशेषकर those of क्रू सदस्यों इससे southampton, खोया उनके प्राथमिक bread-winners.
They were helped by an outpouring of public sympathy and charitable दान.
Some of the male survivors were accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the श्वेत स्टार लकीर 's अध्यक्ष, J. ब्रूस ismay, faced सोशल ostracism लिये the बाकी of his life.
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the seabed, split in दो और धीरे disintegrating at a गहराई of.
Since its discovery in 1985, हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम बरामद और put on display at museums around the world.
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history, her memory kept alive by numerous books, लोक गीतों, films, दर्शाती, और memorials.
The human leg is the entire निम्नतर extremity or limb of the इंसान देह, सहित the foot, thigh and even the hip or gluteal region ; however, the precise definition in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
Legs are used for standing, walking, कूद, कार्यशील, kicking, और समान activities, and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of तुर्कों, सहित जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों is अनुमानित to be 73.7 million with a growth rate of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ).
The population is relatively young with 26.6 % गिरना in the 0-14 आयु bracket.
according to the oecd/world बैंको जनसांख्यिकी आंकडे in Turkey the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750il
बुइक roadmaster
A full-size car is a विपणन पद प्रयुक्त in North America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the United States, the EPA uses the पद `` विशाल car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor, सिंगर, और नर्तकी, ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका as the निपुण of Ceremonies in both the stage and film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the अकादमी पुरस्कार, टोनी पुरस्कार और सुनहरी Globe Award.
He also originated the role of George M. cohan in the musical जार्ज M !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical Wicked.
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything goes as moonface मार्टिन, और शिकागो as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( o.s. कूच 5 ) – जून 28, 1836 ) थी an American statesman and political theorist, the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for होने इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights.
He served as a politician much of उसके वयस्क जीवन.
After the constitution had been drafted, मैडिसन became एक of the नेताओ in the movement to ratify it.
His collaboration with सिकंदर हैमिल्टन और जॉन jay उत्पादित the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the समय, वे होता बाद be माना among the most important polemics in support of the Constitution.
He was also a delegate to the वर्जिनिया संवैधानिक ratifying सम्मेलन, और थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the successful ratification effort in Virginia.
Like most of his contemporaries, मैडिसन बदला उसके political views during his life.
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution, he favored a strong national government, though later he grew to favor stronger state governments, before settling between the two extremes late in his life.
In 1789, मैडिसन became a नेता in the नई House of Representatives, drafting many basic laws.
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the संविधान, और यूँ is ज्ञात as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely with President George वॉशिंगटन to व्यवस्थित the new federal government.
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the federalist पार्टी in 1791, मैडिसन और थामस जेफरसन व्यवस्थित कया वे पुकारा the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s सचिव of राज्य ( 1801–1809 ), मैडिसन पर्यवेक्षित the Louisiana Purchase, which doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the प्रेसिडेंसी, he presided over नवीनीकृत समृद्धि for several years.
As president ( 1809–17 ), after the failure of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition, he चाही to समाप्त the influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके भारतीय allies, जिनकी प्रतिरोध blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an प्रशासनिक दुःस्वप्न, as the संयुक्त राज्य था neither a दमदार फौज nor financial system ; as a result, he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military, as well as the national bank, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave समाज, he थी a slaveholder जो inherited उसके वृक्षारोपण ज्ञात as montpelier, and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated जनसांख्यिकी of स्लेव to be counted for representation.
`` रोमन 's बदला '' is a सोंग performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday.
It थी लिखा by minaj और rapper एमिनेम, जो is also featured in the song, and was produced by Swizz Beatz.
It was released exclusively on अक्तूबर 30, 2010 through the us itunes स्टोर, as a promotional release preceding the album 's release.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' किम और minaj, जहाँ अनेक लोगों लगा the सोंग थी निर्देशित at लील ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame.
the सोंग सन्दर्भ minaj 's alter-ego, Roman Zolanski, and Eminem 's alter-ego, Slim Shady.
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics, most of which praised the सोंग as a stand-out track on the एल्बम.
An आधिकारिक रिमिक्स featuring minaj 's mentor, लील वेन, थी released to the US iTunes Store on January 19, 2011.
The instrumental was used in the सोंग 'firing स्क्वाड ' by नाल G.A.N.G.
Hydraulic द्रव होने poured.
Hydraulic fluids, also called hydraulic liquids, are the मीडियम by जिससे शक्ति is transferred in हाइड्रोलिक मशीनरी.
आम हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं आधारित on mineral oil or water.
Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators और backhoes, हाइड्रोलिक brakes, शक्ति परिचालन प्रणालियों, ट्रांसमिशन, कचरा trucks, aircraft flight control systems, lifts, and industrial machinery.
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will work most efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक द्रव प्रयुक्त रै no compressibility
महिंद्रा ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra tractors, the फार्म उपकरण प्रभाग of महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा, builds and sources tractors that are sold worldwide across six continents.
Mahindra is also among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर manufacturers in the world.
Mahindra has a विशाल उपभोक्ता आधार in इण्डिया, चीन and America and a growing base in Australia.
The company builds अधिक tractors in इण्डिया than any other manufacturer, and has the capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, M & M formed a joint venture with अंतरराष्ट्रीय harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the महिंद्रा nameplate for the Indian market.
Armed with engineering, tooling and manufacturing know-how gained इससे इस संबंध, m & m विकसित its first tractor, the B-275.
Mahindra tractors साथ बिक्री of nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is one of the largest tractor companies in the world, and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world.
To expand into the growing tractor market in China, Mahindra acquired बहुमत हिस्सेदारी in jiangling.
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US, Mahindra USA announced its new sponsorship in the NASCAR Nationwide श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट, जिससे is participating साथ a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet.
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson, Jr. महिंद्रा यूएसए, inc. घोषित a 17-race प्राथमिक और 18-race संबद्ध प्रायोजन for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series.
With इस प्रायोजन, Mahindra was the first Indian company to sponsor a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports टोली जिससे भागा the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series.
The power6 is a माइक्रोप्रोसेसर developed by IBM that implemented the Power ISA v.2.03.
When it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the शक्ति5+ as ibm 's फ्लैगशिप शक्ति माइक्रोप्रोसेसर.
It is part of the eCLipz project, said to have a लक्ष्य of converging ibm 's सर्वर हार्डवेयर जहाँ practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The American middle क्लास is a सोशल क्लास in the United States.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use, समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों have put आगे अनेक, अधिक or कम congruent, theories on the American middle class.
depending on क्लास मॉडल प्रयुक्त, the मध्य class may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households.
One of the first major studies of the middle class in America was White Collar : The American मध्य वर्ग, प्रकाशित in 1951 by समाजशास्त्री C. राइट wright_mills मिलों wright_mills.
Later sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of Hamilton कॉलेज commonly divide the मध्य क्लास into two sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or पेशेवर मध्य क्लास consisting of अत्यधिक शिक्षित, salaried professionals and managers.
Constituting roughly one third of households is the निम्नतर मध्य क्लास consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals, skilled कारीगरों and lower-level management.
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of living, significant economic security, considerable work स्वायत्तता और rely on उनके विशेषज्ञता to sustain themselves.
Members of the मध्य क्लास belong to diverse groups which overlap with each other.
Overall, middle-class persons, especially upper-middle-class individuals, are characterized by conceptualizing, बनाना और consulting.
Thus, college education is one of the प्रमुख indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, middle class values tend to emphasize independence, adherence to मूलभूत मानकों, valuing नवीनता and respecting non-conformity.
Politically more active than other demographics, college educated मध्य क्लास पेशेवर हैं विभाजित between the दो प्रमुख पार्टियों.
Income varies considerably from near the नेशनल मध्य to खूब in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income figures, however, do not always reflect class status and standard of living, as they are largely influenced by the क्रमांक of आय earners और असफल to recognize household आकार.
It is therefore possible for a large, dual-earner, निम्नतर मध्य क्लास household to out-earn a small, one-earner, upper middle class household.
The middle classes are very influential, as वे encompass the बहुमत of मतदाता, लेखक, teachers, journalists, and editors.
Most societal trends in the US originate within the मध्य वर्ग.
the following is a सूची of Saturday Night Live cast members, past and present.
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For प्रधान समय खिलाड़ी ''.
The असली डाल ( l to r ) : laraine Newman, John Belushi, Jane Curtin, Gilda Radner, Dan Aykroyd, Garrett Morris, and Chevy Chase
तबाह इससे the 1906 सैन फ्रांसिस्को earthquake, remembered as one of the worst natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or destruction, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A disaster can be ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई tragic इवेंट stemming इससे कार्यक्रम ऐसे as earthquakes, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to जीवन और प्रॉपर्टी और नष्ट the आर्थिक, सोशल और सांस्कृतिक life of people.
In समकालीन academia, आपदाओं हैं देखी as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
ये risks हैं the product of a combination of both hazard/s and vulnerability.
जोखिमों कि स्ट्राइक in क्षेत्रों साथ कम vulnerability will never become disasters, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by आपदाओं occur in विकासशील देशों, और नुकसान due to प्राकृतिक आपदाओं are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of GDP ) in developing countries than in industrialized countries.
In computing, booting ( भी ज्ञात as booting up ) is the आरंभिक नियत of परिचालन कि a कंप्यूटर system performs when electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins when a कंप्यूटर is turned on लिये the पहला समय or is re-energized बाद होने turned बंद, और ends जब the कंप्यूटर is ready to perform its normal operations.
On modern general purpose computers, this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating और initializing परिधीय डिवाइस, और तब ढूंढना, loading and starting an operating system.
अनेक कंप्यूटर प्रणालियों भी allow ये परिचालन to be initiated by a तन्त्र कमांड बगैर cycling power, in what is known as a soft reboot, though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating system or runtime environment for the कंप्यूटर बाद पूर्णता of the self-tests.
The computer term boot is short for बूटस्ट्रैप or बूटस्ट्रैप लोड और गर्भाशयी इससे the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls attention to the requirement that, if सबसे तन्त्र is loaded onto a कंप्यूटर by अन्य तन्त्र already running on the computer, some mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer.
Early computers used a variety of ad-hoc methods to get a small program into मेमोरी to solve इस प्रॉब्लम.
The invention of integrated circuit read-only मेमोरी ( rom ) of विभिन्न प्रकार हल इस विरोधाभास by allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased.
Growth in the capacity of ROM has अनुमत कभी अधिक elaborate start up procedures to be implemented.
On general purpose computers, the boot process begins with the execution of an initial program stored in बूट roms or पढ़ा in another फ़ैशन.
In some older computers, the initial program might have महरूम the अनुप्रयोग to run, if no operating system was used, or the operating system.
In other computers, the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ), from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or, in some older computers, from a medium such as punched ताश, punched टेप, or चुम्बकीय टेप in older computers, the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it.
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities, it may, बजाय, लोड a larger और अधिक capable secondary boot loader, which would then load the operating system or runtime environment.
Some embedded systems do not आवश्यकता a noticeable बूट अनुक्रम to begin functioning and when turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an खोलें सोर्स एसक्यूएल रिलेशनल डेटाबेस प्रबन्धन प्रणाली कि runs on Linux, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
The database forked from Borland 's open source संस्करण of interbase in 2000, but since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten.
Outsourcing is the contracting आउट of an internal business process to a third-party organization.
The practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is आम in the modern economy.
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the United States near the फेरे of the 21st सदी.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और एसेट from one firm to another, but not always.
the परिभाषा of आउटसोर्सिंग शामिल दोनो विदेशी and domestic contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring, which means relocating a business function to another country.
Financial savings from lower international labor rates is a बिग प्रेरणा लिये outsourcing/offshoring.
The विपरीत of आउटसोर्सिंग is पुकारा insourcing, जिससे entails bringing प्रक्रियाओं संभाला by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration.
However, a कारोबार can provide a अनुबंध सेवा to another business without necessarily insourcing that business process.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ), a condition in humans in which प्रगतिशील विफलता of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली allows life-threatening opportunistic infections और cancers to thrive.
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood, semen, vaginal द्रव, pre-ejaculate, or स्तन milk.
भीतर ये bodily fluids, HIV is present as both free virus particles and virus within infected immune cells.
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system such as helper t कोशिकाएं ( specifically cd4 + t कोशिकाएं ), macrophages, और dendritic cells.
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander कोशिकाएं, सीधा वाइरल हत्या of संक्रमित कोशिकाएं, और हत्या of संक्रमित CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the body becomes progressively अधिक susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a आग स्टेशन in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in fire स्टेशन, allowing अग्निशमन responding to an सचेतक to जल्दी descend to the मैदान मंजिल तेज़ than by using a standard staircase.
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon, in Chicago, Illinois, although it is often incorrectly credited to the बोस्टन आग Department.
Mary Poppins is the title character of a series of children 's किताबे written by P. L. Travers.
Throughout the Mary Poppins श्रेणी, जिससे lasted इससे 1934 to 1988, Mary Shepard was the illustrator and acted as a second author.
The books centre on a जादुई अंग्रेज़ी नैनी, मरियम Poppins.
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen चेरी पेड़ लेन, लंदन, और into the Banks ' household to care for their children.
Encounters with chimney sweeps, shopkeepers and विभिन्न adventures follow जबतक मरियम poppins abruptly पत्ते, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
The adventures take place over a total of आठ किताबे.
However, only the पहला तीन किताबे विशेषता मरियम poppins arriving and leaving.
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures from her original three visits.
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the पार्क, `` वो can नहीं forever arrive और निकलें. ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a musical डिज़्नी फिल्मी अभिनीत जूली एंड्रयूज और Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, Disney Theatrical produced a स्टेज musical adaptation in the West End theatre.
The stage musical थी transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3, 2013.
It has been highly कामयाब, as थी the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 अमरीकी coming of आयु टीन रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी विकसित alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name.
The film was directed by जूली ऐनी रॉबिन्सन in उसके विशेषता film directorial debut and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie.
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus, Liam Hemsworth, and Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as वो reconnects साथ उसके estranged पिता और जलप्रपात in प्रेम दौरान a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town.
The film is distributed by touchstone तस्वीरें.
Sparks was approached to write both the फिल्मी 's पटकथा और the novel.
Sparks completed the screenplay in जनवरी 2009, prior to the पूर्णता of the अनोखा, बनाना the पिछला सोंग उसके पहला script to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North Carolina like the novel, moved to Georgia after the राज्य था campaigned लिये महीने to मेजबान उत्पादन.
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island, जॉर्जिया और आसपास savannah, the पिछला सोंग became the first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted from June 15 to अगस्त 18, 2009 साथ much of it occurring on the island 's beach and pier.
The Last Song थी originally अनुसूचित लिये चौड़ी रिलीज on जनवरी 8, 2010, but was postponed to March 31, 2010.
लिखा Simlish
Simlish is a fictional भाषा प्रदर्शित in EA Games ' Sim series of games.
It debuted in SimCopter, and has been especially prominent in the सीम, the सीम 2 and The Sims 3.
The Sims development team created the अद्वितीय simlish भाषा by experimenting साथ fractured यूक्रेनी, French, Latin, Finnish, English, Fijian, Cebuano, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4, simcity समाजों और simcity 2013, but far less frequently.
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be taught to बोलो simlish.
It is also प्रदर्शित to an extent in firaxis खेल ' सिड Meier 's SimGolf.
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need लिये संवाद in the खेल, लकिन विचार कि using a रियल भाषा would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
Initially, inspired by the Native American code talkers of संसार युद्ध ii, सीम निर्माता होगा राइट और भाषा विशेषज्ञ मार्क gimbel सुझाया experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish.
However, वे ultimately decided कि simlish worked बेहतरीन as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words that could n't be translated, so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player.
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense भाषा '' turned आउट to be the सही विकास चुनाव, as लोगों were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one.
The actual sound of simlish थी निर्मित improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor.
An example of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 IAE aircraft engine.
Step 1 : The ut जांच is लगाई on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected साथ the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ).
कदम 2 : यंत्र जमावट are input.
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the ब्लेड root.
In this case, an indication ( शिखर in the आंकड़ा ) through the red line ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack.
Principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण.
LEFT : A probe sends a ध्वनि वेव into a परीक्षण सामग्री.
There are two indications, one from the आरंभिक पल्स of the जांच, and the second due to the back wall echo.
RIGHT : a defect creates a तीसरा indication और simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is determined by the अनुपात d/e
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very छोटी अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves साथ बीच बारंबारता ranging इससे 0.1-15 mhz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials.
A common example is ultrasonic मोटाई मापन, जिससे परीक्षण the मोटाई of the test object, for example, to monitor pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys, though it can भी be प्रयुक्त on कंक्रीट, लकडी and composites, albeit with less resolution.
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace, ऑटोमोटिव और अन्य परिवहन सेक्टर.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ), is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; वे हस्तांतरण शुक्राणु इससे the epididymis in पुट of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; इससे यूनानी भाषा ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- रूट denoting a प्रतिबंध or thinning or to मेक or grow thin/lean, haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues, causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ).
Ischemia is generally caused by समस्याएं with blood vessels, with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
It also means local anemia in a given part of a देह sometimes resulting इससे जमघट ( such as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism ).
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a जेनेटिक विकार caused by the उपस्थिति of सब or भाग of a तीसरा copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the most आम chromosome तबदीली in humans.
It is typically संबद्ध साथ a विलंब in संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( दिमागी retardation, or MR ) and physical growth, and a particular set of facial characteristics.
The औसत iq of यंग वयस्कों with Down syndrome is around 50, whereas young adults without the condition typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR has historically महरूम पारिभाषित as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals with Down syndrome have a कठोर उपाधि of बौद्धिक विकलांगता.
Down सिंड्रोम is नामित बाद जॉन langdon bas, the अंग्रेजों physician who described the syndrome in 1866.
The कंडीशन थी clinically वर्णित पहले by जां Etienne Dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by dr. jérôme Lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal screening.
Pregnancies with this निदान हैं प्रायः terminated.
The CDC estimates कि परिचय एक of प्रत्येक 691 शिशु born in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome.
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while अन्य आवश्यकता specialised शैक्षणिक सुविधाएं.
Some children graduate from high school, and, in the us, वहीँ हैं increasing अवसर for participating in post-secondary education.
Education and proper care has महरूम दिखाया to improve विशेषता of जीवन significantly.
Many adults साथ bas सिंड्रोम हैं समर्थ to कार्य at paid employment in the community, while others require a more sheltered work environment.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other causes, लकिन जिससे is प्रायः caused by the बदलना हार्मोन स्तर कि हैं characteristic of रजोनिवृत्ति.
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L. 78-346, 58 Stat. 284m ), known informally as the g.i. विधेयक, थी a विधि कि provided a दायरा of लाभ लिये returning संसार War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
Benefits included low-cost mortgages, low-interest loans to start a business or फार्म, नकदी भुगतान of ट्यूशन और जीना खर्च to attend college, high school or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation.
It थी उपलब्धियाँ to प्रत्येक veteran who had been on active duty during the war years for at least ninety days and had not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
By the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I. Bill education benefits in अनुक्रम to attend कॉलेजों or विश्वविद्यालयों, और an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program.
Since the original 1944 law, the term has come to include other veteran benefit programs created to assist दिग्गजों of subsequent युद्धों as खूब as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the g.i. विधेयक a प्रमुख राजनैतिक success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the treatments of World War I veterans—and a major contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth.
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the जून 17, 1972 break-in at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी मुख्यालय at the वाटरगेट दफ्तर जटिल in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., और the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal eventually led to the इस्तीफा of रिचर्ड निक्सन, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, on August 9, 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President.
The scandal also resulted in the indictment, विचारण, conviction, और incarceration of forty-three persons, dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials.
the affair began साथ the गिरफ़्तार of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a slush fund used by the Committee for the Re-Election of the President, the आधिकारिक संगठन of निक्सन 's अभियान.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the president 's स्टाफ, सहित गवाही provided by पूर्व स्टाफ सदस्यों in an छानबीन conducted by the Senate Watergate Committee, it was revealed that President Nixon had a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings from these tapes implicated the president, revealing he had attempted to कवर up the questionable ( और illegal ) goings-on कि था लिया प्लेस दौरान उसके प्रशासन, दोनो पहले और after the break-in.
After a protracted series of bitter court battles, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the president था to हाथ over the टेपों to सरकारी जांचकर्ताओं ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives और a दमदार सम्भावना of a conviction in the सीनेट, निक्सन resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974.
His successor, जेराल्ड घाट, तब issued a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing and Spencer ) is a fictional अक्षर on the एबीसी दिन साबुन ओपेरा सामान्य हॉस्पिटल.
Elizabeth is the पोती of dr. स्टीव हार्डी ( John Beradino ), one of the originating core characters of the series.
Rebecca herbst originated the अक्षर on अगस्त 1, 1997 and has been the only contract actress to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth webber और जेसन मॉर्गन और एलिज़ाबेथ webber.
The United States प्रेसिडेंसी of रोनाल्ड reagan, भी ज्ञात as the reagan प्रशासन, थी a रिपब्लिकन administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing सरकारी कार्यक्रम और introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in American history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, ज्ञात as `` reaganomics ``, यहूद an उदाहरण of supply-side economics.
reagan aimed to प्रोत्साहित उद्यमिता और सीमा the growth of social spending, as well as the reduction of regulation and inflation.
Economic growth देखी a दमदार रिकवरी in the 1980s, helping Reagan to win a landslide re-election.
The national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign policy, the administration was steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the सोवियत संघ an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य `` और समाप्ति 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his पूर्ववर्ती, सहित an आक्रमण of हरा, the पहला प्रमुख विदेशी कार्रवाई by u.S. सैनिकों चूंकि the समाप्त of the Vietnam War.
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to overthrow communist governments, particularly in war-torn सेंट्रल अमेरिका और अफगानिस्तान.
Reagan also प्रचारित नई technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल रक्षा प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront the Soviets and their allies.
In diplomacy, Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and he met with सोवियत सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव चार टाइम्स, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '', or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the राजनैतिक realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets.
The Reagan administration worked toward the पतन of सोवियत साम्यवादी, और it किया collapse just as he left office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar world साथ the u.S. as the संसार 's एकमात्र महाशक्ति.
While the damaging iran-contra affair engulfed अनेक reagan aides दौरान उसके दूसरी पद, reagan himself left office with a 63 percent approval rating, one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents.
After years of unstinting praise from the right, and unrelenting आलोचना इससे the बाएँ, इतिहासकार दाउद हेनरी पाता कि by 2009 a सर्वसम्मति था उभरा among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the स्वदेश to the सही by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the सर्वसम्मति viewpoint agrees कि he revived आस्था in the प्रेसिडेंसी and American self-confidence, and contributed critically to ending the Cold War.
Crude death रेट by देश ( 2006 ).
Mortality रेट is a माप of the क्रमांक of मौतों ( in general, or due to a specific cause ) in a population.
scaled to the आकार of that population, per unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; thus, a mortality rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 होता औसत 9.5 मौतों प्रति साल in कि संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी, or 0.95 % out of the total.
It is distinct from morbidity रेट, जिससे refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान a दिए समय काल ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ).
the पद `` मृत्यु `` is भी sometimes inappropriately प्रयुक्त to refer to the number of deaths among a set of diagnosed hospital cases for a disease or injury, rather than for the general population of a country or ethnic group.
This disease mortality statistic is अधिक precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ).
One distinguishes:
The crude death rate, the total number of deaths per year प्रति 1000 लोगों.
the crude death rate for the पूरे संसार is परिचय 8.37 प्रति 1000 प्रति साल according to the current CIA World Factbook.
The perinatal mortality rate, the sum of neonatal deaths and fetal मौतों ( stillbirths ) प्रति 1000 births.
The maternal mortality ratio, the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 सजीव births in वही समय period.
The maternal mortality rate, the number of मातृ मौतों प्रति 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive age in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ).
The infant mortality rate, the number of मौतों of children कम than 1 साल old per 1000 live births.
The child mortality rate, the number of मौतों of children कम than 5 सालो बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 live births.
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of मौतों कि होता have महरूम अपेक्षित if the जनसांख्यिकी था महरूम of a मानक संयोजन in शर्तें of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific मृत्यु रेट ( asmr ) - इस refers to the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों per year per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g. age 62 last birthday ).
In regard to the or failure of medical treatment or प्रक्रियाओं, एक would also distinguish:
The early मृत्यु रेट, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the early stages of an ongoing treatment, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
the लेट मृत्यु रेट, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the late stages of an ongoing treatment, or a significant length of time after an acute treatment.
Note that the crude death rate as defined above and applied to a पूरे जनसांख्यिकी can दे a भ्रामक छाप.
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality rates and the age ( and लिंग ) वितरण of the जनसांख्यिकी.
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries, despite जीवन प्रत्याशा होने उच्चतर in developed countries due to standards of health being better.
This happens because developed देशों typically have a completely अलग जनसांख्यिकी आयु वितरण, with a much higher proportion of older people, due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates.
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life table जिससे shows the मृत्यु रेट separately for each age.
A जीवन तालिका is जरुरी to give a good estimate of life expectancy.
An otoacoustic उत्सर्जन ( oae ) is a ध्वनि which is generated from within the inner ear.
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948, its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have चूंकि महरूम दिखाया to उठता by a क्रमांक of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been damaged, so OAEs are प्रायः प्रयुक्त in the प्रयोगशाला और the क्लिनिक as a measure of inner ear health.
Broadly बोलना, वहीँ हैं दो प्रकार of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ), जिससे can occur without external stimulation, and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), which require an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 अटलांटिक hurricane ऋतु.
Tomas developed from a तीव्र वेव ईस्ट of the windward आइलैंड्स on October 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very निकट Saint Lucia.
After reaching Category 2 status on the Saffir-Simpson scale, Tomas जल्दी weakened to a तीव्र तूफ़ान in the सेंट्रल caribbean समुद्र, due to दमदार wind shear and dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane औकात as it reorganized near the Windward passage.
Throughout the hurricane 's पाथ, 71 लोगों हैं ज्ञात to have been killed, 14 of whom were in Saint Lucia.
Monetary losses throughout the windward आइलैंड्स यहूद अनुमानित at us $ 588 million, mainly in Saint Lucia.
In the wake of the storm in हैती, बाढ़ intensified an जारी cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 लोगों यहूद मारे in क्यूबा और hispanola, though the distribution of these fatalities are unknown.
Overall damage from the तूफ़ान थी at तनिक $ 741 million.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an American comedian, actress, satirist, singer and internet blogger बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a डाल सदस्य of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न स्केच कॉमेडी श्रेणी शनिवार Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992.
She has received attention as a गायन आलोचक of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा, and is an active participant in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern literature is साहित्य characterized by भारी रिलायंस on तकनीकों जैसे fragmentation, विरोधाभास, और questionable narrators, and is often ( though not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era.
Postmodern works हैं देखी as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध आत्मज्ञान thinking and Modernist approaches to literature.
Postmodern literature, like postmodernism as a whole, tends to resist परिभाषा or वर्गीकरण as a `` गति ''.
Indeed, the अभिसरण of postmodern साहित्य साथ विभिन्न मोड्स of नाजुक सिद्धान्त, विशेषकर reader-response and deconstructionist approaches, and the subversions of the implicit contract between author, text and reader by which its works are often characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, and importance of postmodern literature, as is प्रायः the मामला साथ कलाकारी आंदोलनों, postmodern साहित्य is commonly defined in relation to a precursor.
For example, a postmodern साहित्यिक कार्य tends नहीं to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up ending as is often found in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate मौका over शिल्प, और further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of भेद between ऊँची और कम संस्कृति through the use of pastiche, the combination of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in जर्मनी by माइकल cretu, दाउद Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990.
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany, but based his recording studio a.r.t. studios in ibiza, स्पेन, इससे the जल्दी 1990s जबतक may 2009, जहाँ he रै अंकित सब of पहेली 's स्टुडियो releases to date.
Cretu is both the composer and the निर्माता of the प्रोजेक्ट.
His former wife, pop सिंगर सैंड्रा, प्रायः provided vocals on Enigma tracks.
जेंस gad co-arranged और निभाई guitar on three of the Enigma albums.
Peter Cornelius also contributed to पहेली during the 1990s.
Seven studio albums have been उत्पादित अंतर्गत the नाम of the project.
Scooby-Doo is an American animated कार्टून मताधिकार, comprising several animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day.
The original series, scooby-doo, जहाँ हैं You !
, थी निर्मित लिये hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by writers Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones, Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley, and Norville `` Shaggy '' Rogers — and their talking brown Great Dane श्वान नामित scooby-doo, जो solve रहस्यों involving माना supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the success of the original series, Hanna-Barbera and इसके successor warner ब्रदर्स. एनिमेशन have उत्पादित numerous follow-up और spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी और अनेक सम्बन्धित works, सहित television specials and telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of Scooby-Doo विशेषता अलग विसंगतियाँ on the दिखाएँ 's अलौकिक थीम, और शामिल वर्ण ऐसे as स्कूबी 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters.
Scooby-Doo was originally ब्रॉडकास्ट on सीबीएस from 1969 to 1976, when it moved to ABC.
ABC aired the show जबतक canceling it in 1986, और प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the characters as children, A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, from 1988 until 1991.
Two new Scooby-Doo series, What 's नई, scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy and scooby-doo मिलेंगी a a सुराग ! ] ], aired as भाग of बच्चे wb on The WB network and its successor, The CW network, from 2002 until 2008.
The सबसे हाल scooby-doo series, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery incorporated, aired on कार्टून संजाल from 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series हैं ब्रॉडकास्ट अक्सर on कार्टून संजाल और boomerang in the United States and other countries.
Call of Duty is a first-person और third-person शूटर computer/ video game franchise.
the श्रेणी began on the pc, और बाद expanded to consoles and handhelds.
Several spin-off games have भी महरूम released.
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II, this शामिल : कॉल of ड्यूटी, कॉल of ड्यूटी 2, और कॉल of ड्यूटी 3.
Beginning with Modern warfare, जिससे is set in modern times, the series has shifted focus away from World War II.
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by Call of Duty : संसार at युद्ध और कॉल of ड्यूटी : Modern Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War, while Modern Warfare 3 ( released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( released नवम्बर 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are published and owned by एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr मीडिया प्रकाशन it for Apple OS X.
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them, Treyarch has also developed several of the शीर्षक साथ the रिलीज of the studios ' खेल interlaced with each other.
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive, Spark Unlimited, विस्मित entertainment, n-space, विद्रोह developments, ideaworks खेल स्टुडियो, sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games.
The games use a variety of engines, सहित the id तकनीक 3, the treyarch ngl, और the IW 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by plan-b खिलौने, a कार्ड खेल निर्मित by अपर डेक, और a कॉमिक book mini-series published by WildStorm.
as of नवम्बर 11, 2011, the कॉल of Duty series have sold over 100 million copies.
As of March 31, 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across all of the Call of Duty titles, with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite उपयोक्ता और 2 लाख paying annual members.
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have been logged आधुनिक warfare 3 since its 2011 release.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such property is transferred via a होगा, according to the राज्य कानून of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of the मौत of the मालिक, ऐसे as a ट्रांसफ़र of प्रॉपर्टी इससे an intestate estate or trust, or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries.
The estate tax is one part of the एकीकृत तोहफा और एस्टेट कर प्रणाली in the United States.
The other part of the system, the gift tax, imposes a tax on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a व्यक्ति 's जीवन ; the तोहफा कर रोकता avoidance of the एस्टेट कर चाहिए a person want to give away his/her estate.
In addition to the federal government, many states also impose an estate tax, with the state version called either an एस्टेट कर or an inheritance tax.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the एस्टेट कर कॉल it the `` death tax ''.
If an asset is left to a spouse or a federally पहचाना दान, the कर प्रायः does not apply.
In जोड, up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत, before and/or upon their death, without incurring federal gift or estate taxes.
Gavin मैकग्रेगर rossdale ( born 30 अक्तूबर 1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता और संगीतकार, ज्ञात as the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, which lasted for eight years, he was the lead सिंगर और guitarist लिये संस्थान, और later began a solo career.
When performing solo, गेविन plays गीतों इससे उसके extensive musical libraries.
Rossdale has been क्रमित in the शीर्ष 100 भारी Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ).
Raffaello sanzio da urbino ( अप्रैल 6 or कूच 28, 1483 – अप्रैल 6, 1520 ), बेहतर known simply as Raphael, was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance.
His work is admired for its clarity of form and आसानी of संयोजन और लिये इसके विज़ुअल उपलब्धि of the neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur.
Together with michelangelo और लियोनार्डो da विंची, he forms the traditional trinity of great masters of that period.
राफेल थी enormously उत्पादक, कार्यशील an unusually large workshop, and despite his death at 37, a large body of his work remains.
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace, where the frescoed राफेल कक्ष यहूद the सेंट्रल, और the largest, work of his career.
The best known work is The School of Athens in the वेटिकन stanza देला segnatura.
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed, लकिन लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the कार्यशाला from his drawings, with considerable loss of quality.
He was extremely influential in उसके आजीवन, हालांकि बाहर Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking.
After his death, the influence of उसके ग्रेट प्रतिद्वंद्वी michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries, when Raphael 's more serene and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models.
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles, first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria, then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the कलाकारी परंपराओं of Florence, followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome, working for two Popes and their close associates.
Julia फिओना रॉबर्ट्स ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the romantic कॉमेडी pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ), जिससे grossed $ 464 million worldwide.
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman, वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie विल्सन 's युद्ध ( 2007 ), वेलेंटाइन 's दिन ( 2010 ), खा दुवा प्रेम ( 2010 ), और दर्पण दर्पण ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion, making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts.
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the संसार, टॉपिंग the हॉलीवुड पत्रकारों सालाना `` शक्ति list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
Her शुल्क लिये 1990 's pretty स्त्री थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003, she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's जाल लायक थी अनुमानित to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been named one of People magazine 's `` 50 सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों in the World '' eleven times, tied with Halle Berry.
In 2011, she was named one of the `` 100 hottest महिलाओं of all-time '' by मेन 's Health.
In 2001, महिलाओं घर जर्नल क्रमित उसके as the 11th most powerful woman in the United States.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14, 1984 ) is an American computer प्रोग्रामर और अंतरजाल उद्योगों.
He is best known as one of five co-founders of the सोशल नेटवर्किंग website Facebook.
As of April 2013, Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief executive of Facebook, Inc. and in 2013 his personal wealth was अनुमानित to be us $ 13.3 billion.
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin, Andrew mccollum, डस्टिन moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस, zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses nationwide and moved to Palo Alto, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य ( u.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook और the क्रमांक of फेसबुक उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी पहुँचे a कुल of one billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by अन्य in the समूह, जो claimed a share of the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest and most influential people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its Person of the साल accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010 हॉलीवुड फिल्मी the सोशल संजाल in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों, सहित a कोर समूह of separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष नई संसार पर्यावरण.
framedthe
कमेटी of तरीके और अर्थात् is the मुख्य कर -writing committee of the United States House of Representatives.
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other House Committees unless they apply for a waiver from उनके पार्टी 's congressional leadership.
The Committee has jurisdiction over all कराधान, tariffs और अन्य revenue-raising measures, as well as a number of other programs including:
सोशल सुरक्षा
बेरोजगारी लाभ
medicare
प्रवर्तन of child support laws
अस्थाई सहायता लिये मोहताज परिवारों, a federal welfare program
फोस्टर परवाह और अपनाना programs
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills regarding taxation must originate in the हाउस of Representatives.
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee, the कमेटी is बहुत influential, as is इसके सीनेट बंटवारा, the u.S. सीनेट कमेटी on वित्त.
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by चार्ली rangel, जो था लिया a छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as chairman until House ethics violations were resolved.
However, his leave of absence as chairman was शासित to be a इस्तीफा.
Pete स्टार्क resigned as एक्टिंग chairman, so Sander Levin held that position until the start of the 112th Congress.
Dave Camp became the committee कुर्सी लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस, after the Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( पुकारा mysticeti ).
At in length and or more in weight, it is the largest known animal to have ever existed.
Long and slender, the blue whale 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat lighter underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and उत्तर प्रशांत, B. m. intermedia of the दक्षिणी समंदर और B. m. brevicauda ( भी ज्ञात as the सानो ब्लू व्हेल ) मिला in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. indica, found in the भारतीय समंदर, may be another subspecies.
As with other baleen whales, its diet consists लगभग exclusively of छोटी crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly all the oceans on Earth जबतक the शुरूआत of the twentieth century.
For over a century, they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers जबतक सुरक्षित by the international community in 1966.
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales विश्वव्यापी, स्तिथ in at तनिक पाँच समूह.
अधिक हाल शोध into the सानो subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest जनसांख्यिकी थी in the अंटार्कटिक, numbering approximately 239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी उत्तर Pacific, Antarctic, and Indian Ocean groups.
There are two more groups in the North अटलांटिक, और at तनिक दो in the Southern Hemisphere.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a किस्में of a प्रजाति of thistle cultivated as a food.
The edible matter is buds that form within the flower heads पहले the पुष्प आइये into bloom.
The buds go away or change to a coarse, barely खाद्य रूप जब the पुष्प blooms.
The uncultivated or wild variety of the species is called a cardoon.
It is a perennial plant देशी to the भूमध्यसागरीय region.
The United States one hundred-dollar विधेयक ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
U.S. statesman, आविष्कारक, और राजनयिक बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन is currently featured on the obverse of the bill.
on the रिवर्स of the banknote is an image of Independence Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed since July 13, 1969, जब the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were retired.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 100 bill in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने ( 7.5 सालो ) पहले it is replaced due to wear and tear.
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` benjamins '', in सन्दर्भ to the उपयोग of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination, or `` C-Notes '', based on the Roman numeral for 100.
The bill is one of two denominations printed today that does not feature a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ; the अन्य is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse, according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण, shows approximately 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar बिल्स हैं वितरित by Federal Reserve Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21, 2010, और थी to be जारी to the पब्लिक on फ़रवरी 11, 2011, लकिन उत्पादन थी shut down in December 2010 because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw.
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a रिक्त स्पेस on the विधेयक जब pulled out.
In their replacement, and continuing the high demand of this denomination, the श्रेणी 2006a थी शुभारम्भ retaining the पिछला design ( 1996-generation ).
On April 24, 2013, the संघीय आरक्षित घोषित the नई $ 100 विधेयक would enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
King David in robes of a बीज़ान्टिन emperor.
miniature इससे the Paris Psalter.
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible, was the second king of the United किंगडम of इसराईल, और according to the नई वसीयत gospels of मैथ्यू और ल्यूक, an पूर्वज of Jesus.
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE, his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE, and his reign over the संयुक्त किंगडम of इसराईल c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of सैमुएल, 1 किंग्स, और 1 क्रॉनिकल्स हैं the तभी sources of information on David, although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', which most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David.
He is depicted as a righteous king, although not without faults, as well as an acclaimed warrior, musician, और कवि, traditionally credited लिये composing अनेक of the ज़बूर contained in the Book of Psalms.
David is central to Jewish, Christian, और इस्लामी doctrine and culture.
Biblical परंपरा maintains कि a सीधा descendant of David will be the Messiah.
in islam he is माना to be a prophet and the king of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the पूंजी और largest शहरी agglomerate of नेपाल.
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu महानगर नगर at इसके कोर, और इसके सिस्टर cities Patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It also includes the recently recognized urban areas of shankhapur, karyabinayak, और champapur.
Banepa, dhulikhel, और panauti हैं उपग्रह शहरी areas of Kathmandu located just outside the Kathmandu valley.
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, Kathmandu metropolis अलोन रै 975,453 निवासियों ; और the agglomerate रै a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants.
The metropolitan city area is और रै a जनसांख्यिकी density of 19,250 per km2.
The city stands at an उन्नयन of लगभग in the bowl-shaped काठमांडू Valley of central Nepal.
It is surrounded by four major mountains : Shivapuri, phulchoki, nagarjun, and Chandragiri.
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu, Lalitpur, और भक्तपुर ), रै the उच्चतम जनसांख्यिकी density in the country, and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population.
During Rana and Shah eras, the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what people who जिया बाहर the घाटी पुकारा it.
During this period, British historians called the घाटी itself `` नेपाल उचित ''.
Today, Kathmandu is not only the capital of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, लकिन भी the मुख्यालय of the सेंट्रल विकास प्रदेश of Nepal.
the सेंट्रल प्रदेश comprises three zones : Bagmati, Narayani, and Janakpur.
काठमांडू is स्तिथ in the Bagmati Zone.
Kathmandu is the गेटवे to पर्यटन in Nepal.
It is भी the तंत्रिका center of the country 's economy.
It रै the सबसे उन्नत अवसंरचना of कोई शहरी क्षेत्रफल in नेपाल, and its economy is focused on tourism, which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a काल of राजनैतिक अशांति, लकिन चूंकि then has improved. )
The city has a समृद्ध इतिहास, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious and cultural festivities form a major part of the जीवनदान of लोगों residing in Kathmandu.
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism और अनेक अन्य follow buddhism.
There are people of other religious beliefs as खूब, giving काठमांडू a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन संस्कृति.
नेपाली is the सबसे commonly spoken language in the city.
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous language बोला by the Newar people.
Hindi is widely understood और अंग्रेज़ी is समझा by काठमांडू 's educated residents.
The city 's साक्षरता रेट is 98 %.
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage, tourism industry, and economy ; therefore युनेस्को 's संसार विरासत साईट सूचियाँ सब तीन शहरों ' स्मारक और आकर्षण साथ अंतर्गत एक heading, `` काठमांडू valley- युनेस्को World Heritage Site ``.
Field hockey, usually referred to simply as hockey, is a team sport of the hockey परिवार जिससे is निभाई between दो टीमों of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard, solid plastic ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, साथ particular लोकप्रियता throughout यूरोपीय, एशिया, महासागरीय, और South America – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan and India.
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in कनाडा, the संयुक्त राज्य, और अन्य regions of the world where the sport of ice hockey is more popular.
During play, goal keepers are the only खिलाड़ी जो हैं अनुमत to टच the बॉल साथ कोई भाग of उनके देह ( साथ the एक्सेप्शन of a खिलाड़ी 's हाथ माना 'part of the स्टिक ' ), with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick.
The team that scores the सबसे लक्ष्य by the समाप्त of the मैच wins.
if the स्कोर is tied at the समाप्त of the खेल, either a चित्रण is घोषित or the game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout, depending on the competition 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ), with men and women being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic खेल, राष्ट्रमंडल खेल, हॉकी संसार कप, champions ट्रॉफी और जूनियर हॉकी संसार कप, साथ अनेक देशों कार्यशील extensive junior, senior, and masters ' club competitions.
The FIH is भी जिम्मेदार लिये organising the हॉकी नियम Board and developing the rules for the sport.
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects जबकि मूर्त the प्राथमिक सिद्धान्त of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant, साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे is घटाया to लगभग 40m × 20m.
With अनेक of the नियम बाकी the वही, सहित रुकावट और फीट, वहीँ हैं अनेक कुंजी विसंगतियाँ - खिलाड़ी may नहीं उठाएँ the ball unless shooting on goal, players may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off.
ethan `` cane '' ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the American CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless.
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who originally auditioned लिये ब्रैड स्नाइडर on as the संसार turns लकिन थी अनुशंसित लिये a भूमिका on the यंग and the Restless instead.
The role was to be portrayed as an American, but Goddard 's ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent बहकावे the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि.
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced उसे दौरान the एपीसोड airing on जनवरी 12, 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family, a debut that received a mixed response.
Latham created Cane as the बेटे of फिलिप चांसलर ii ( donnelly rhodes ) और jill फोस्टर Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's background was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009, reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ).
Though characterized as `` mysterious '', Cane is `` वफ़ादार और समर्पित '', जबकि गोडार्ड वर्णित the अक्षर as a `` ठेठ Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He थी the पहला सदस्य of the एटकिन्सन परिवार to appear on the series, followed by his parents and identical twin brother.
Soon after his debut, he became a leading अक्षर, a निर्णय praised by दर्शक and critics.
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ), Chloe Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and most notably लिली सर्दियों ( christel खलील ), a रोमांस कि garnered significant प्रशंसक attention.
In 2009, Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC would later call लिली the प्रेम of cane 's life.
The pair था दो children, चार्ली and Mattie Ashby.
In 2011, the actor was fired, and Cane was शॉट to मौत onscreen.
However, Goddard थी rehired जल्द बाद दर्शक campaigned लिये उसके वापसी, revealing that Cane 's identical twin brother was in fact the man who died.
This sacrificed his marriage to Lily, but the युगल यहूद remarried on वेलेंटाइन 's दिन in 2012.
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; canyon न्यूज कहा कि he portrays the अक्षर honestly, and is `` always dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9, 1963 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, फिल्मी निर्माता, and musician.
He has won the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार and Screen Actors Guild award for Best Actor.
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s television series 21 जम्प गली, बनने a टीन आइडल.
Dissatisfied with that status, Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office कामयाबी in films ऐसे as sleepy खोखला ( 1999 ), चार्ली और the चॉकलेट फैक्टरी ( 2005 ), ऐलिस in वंडरलैंड ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated with director and friend Tim Burton in आठ films ; the सबसे हाल होने अंधेरा साए ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in भय और loathing in लास वेगास, जार्ज जंग in उड़ा, और the बैंको डाकू जॉन dillinger in माइकल मन 's पब्लिक Enemies.
films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, जीतना the बेहतरीन कर्ता पुरस्कार इससे the सुनहरी –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy ग्लोब्स –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy लिये स्वीनी Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl.
He also has garnered a sex प्रतीक status in American cinema, being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009.
He रै महरूम सूचीबद्ध in the 2012 गिनीज किताब of World Records as the highest paid actor, with $ 75 million.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
साथ a वेब ब्राउजर, एक can दृश्य वेब पृष्ठों कि may contain text, images, videos, and other multimedia, and navigate between them via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, now Director of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ), लिखा a प्रस्ताव in कूच 1989 लिये कया would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland, Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11, 1986 ) is an American football quarterback for the New York jets of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट as the पांचवां overall चयन by the jets और the second quarterback taken overall.
He played college football at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( USC ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined and athletic family.
In the eighth grade, he began to play football and learn the intricacies of the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति, प्रशिक्षण साथ उसके पिता, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to Southern California following his successful high school करियर in जिससे he led उसके टोली to a चैंपियनशिप title during his final season.
At USC, Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first three years though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the फ़ील्ड in 2007 due to चोटों suffered by starting क्वार्टरबैक जॉन दाउद Booty.
Sanchez also became popular भीतर the जातियाँ due to उसके mexican-american heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led यूएससी to a 12–1 रिकार्ड और जीती the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense.
Although many considered him too अनुभवहीन, सांचेज़ घोषित his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up with the Cleveland भूरा, और थी नामित the starting क्वार्टरबैक prior to the प्रारंभ of the season.
Despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game, a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts, becoming the fourth रुकी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to जीत उसके पहला playoff खेल और the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the टोली 's दूसरी लगातार afc चैंपियनशिप खेल जहाँ वे narrowly खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स, 24–19.
With the win over the New इंग्लैण्ड देशप्रेमी the सप्ताह prior, सांचेज़ tied चार अन्य quarterbacks for the second most post-season road victories by a quarterback in NFL history.
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships, सांचेज़ joined क्वार्टरबैक बेन roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in NFL history to reach the conference championship in their first two seasons in the league.
The next two seasons would be a regression for दोनो the टोली और सांचेज़ as वे विफल to पहुँचें the playoffs.
प्रशंसक और मीडिया आलोचकों पुकारा for a struggling Sanchez to be benched.
He eventually was replaced towards the end of the 2012 ऋतु साथ ग्रेग mcelroy.
Paul Avery ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) was an अमरीकी पुलिस रिपोर्टर, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac, and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping.
A small submersible AC sump pump साथ a गार्डन नली connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove जल कि रै संचित in a जल collecting sump basin, commonly found in the basement of homes.
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a basement waterproofing system, funneling into the जलाशय or क्युकी of बरसात or प्राकृतिक मैदान जल, if the तहखाने is नीचे the water table level.
Sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens regularly और to उपाय dampness जहाँ the जल तालिका is ऊपर the foundation of a home.
Sump pumps send water दूर इससे a हाउस to कोई प्लेस जहाँ it is no longer समस्यापूर्ण, such as a municipal storm drain or a dry well.
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary sewer in पुरानी संस्थापना.
Once considered acceptable, this practice may now violate the plumbing कोड or नगरपालिका bylaws, because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect और reroute sump पंप discharge away from sanitary sewers.
जुर्माना may be imposed for noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump configurations और do नहीं एहसास कि the पंप discharges to the सीवर.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry डूबना in the तहखाने, it 's likely going to the sewer.
Usually hardwired into a घर 's विद्युत प्रणाली, sump pumps may have a battery backup.
The home 's pressurized जल सप्लाई शक्तियां कुछ पंपों, eliminating the need लिये विद्युत at the expense of using potable water, potentially making them more expensive to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem.
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped, a backup system is important for मामले जब the प्रमुख शक्ति is आउट लिये prolonged अवधि of समय, as during a severe storm.
There are generally two types of sump pumps — pedestal और submersible.
The pedestal पंप 's motor is mounted above the sump, where it is more easily serviced, but is also more conspicuous.
The pump impeller is चलित by a long, लंबवत extension shaft and the impeller is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely आरोहित अंदर the sump, और is specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits.
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल जल तालिका -सुनानाd problems in surface soil.
An artesian aquifer or periodic high water table situation can कारण the मैदान to become unstable due to water saturation.
As long as the पंप कृत्यों, the सतह soil will remain stable.
These sumps are typically ten फीट in गहराई or अधिक ; lined साथ corrugated metal pipe that contains perforations or drain holes throughout.
They may include electronic control systems with visual और audible सचेतक और हैं प्रायः covered to prevent मलबा और पशु from falling in.
Bleeding Kansas, Bloody Kansas or the Border War, was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` किनारा ruffian `` तत्व, कि took प्लेस in the कान्सास territory और the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether Kansas would enter the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य or स्लेव राज्य.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and southerners over the समस्या of slavery in the United States.
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York Tribune ; the events it encompasses सीधे presaged the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध.
Congress had long struggled to संतुलन the रूचि of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces.
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas यहूद नियत into गति by the kansas–nebraska अधिनियम of 1854, जिससे nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it होता be a फ़्री or स्लेव राज्य ; however, इस resulted in आव्रजन en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides.
At one point, कान्सास था दो पृथक सरकारें, प्रत्येक with its own constitution, although only one was federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, कान्सास थी admitted to the Union as a free state, less than three months before the Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War.
Benzene is an organic रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the आणविक formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 हाइड्रोजन अणु संलग्न to each carbon atom.
Because its molecules contain only कार्बन और हाइड्रोजन अणु, बेंजीन is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene is a प्राकृतिक constituent of crude oil, and is one of the most basic petrochemicals.
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a चक्रीय हाइड्रोकार्बन साथ a निरन्तर pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H. Benzene is a colorless और अत्यधिक ज्वलनशील द्रव साथ a sweet smell.
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy chemicals, such as ethylbenzene and cumene, which हैं उत्पादित on a अरब किलोग्राम स्केल.
क्युकी it रै a ऊँची ऑक्टेन क्रमांक, it is an important component of gasoline, composing a few percent of its mass.
Most non-industrial applications have been सीमित by बेंजीन 's carcinogenicity.
giovanni virginio स्क्यापारेल्ली ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an Italian astronomer and science historian.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of निन्टेंडो 's वी खेल कंसोल to run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo.
It achieves this by defeating the Wii 's copy protection और कोड हस्ताक्षर उपायों.
In more general terms, Wii Homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the वी 's हार्डवेयर, accessories और तन्त्र for purposes outside those intended by the manufacturer.
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a इंगित यंत्र on अन्य ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों, or कार्यशील web-based games in the built-in web browser.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, such as the `` Twilight hack ``, `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '', `` Smash Stack '', `` इंडियाना pwns '', `` yu-gi-owned '', `` bathaxx '', और `` वापसी of the jodi '', बना installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible.
Hadley ( right ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon संकट साथ बुश and Rice.
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13, 1947 ) was the 21st u.S. सहायक to the अध्यक्ष लिये नेशनल सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ), serving under President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing plants and give उर्वरक to हाफ of them.
If वहीँ हैं मतभेद between the निषेचित plant group and the unfertilized `` control '' group, these differences may be due to the fertilizer.
A scientific control is an प्रयोग or अवलोकन designed to minimize the effects of variables other than the single independent variable.
This increases the reliability of the results, often through a तुलना between control measurements and the other measurements.
Scientific controls are a part of the वैज्ञानिक विधि.
For example, during drug testing, scientists will try to कंट्रोल दो समूह to रखना उन्हें as एकसमान as संभावित, then allow one group to try the drug.
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the कंट्रोल group, because they establish the baseline level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against.
Without a control group, the experiment can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated पौधे grow अधिक than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all variables in an experiment will be controlled ( accounted लिये by the कंट्रोल माप ) और none होगा be uncontrolled.
In such an experiment, if all the controls work as अपेक्षित, it is संभावित to conclude कि the प्रयोग is working as intended और कि the results of the experiment are due to the effect of the variable being tested.
That is, scientific controls allow an investigator to मेक a अर्जी जैसे `` दो परिस्थितियों यहूद एकसमान जबतक factor X occurred.
चूंकि फ़ैक्टर x is the तभी अंतर between the two situations, the new outcome was caused by factor X. ''
< < Chemical तत्व आंकड़ा सन्दर्भ
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( o.s. अक्तूबर 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, and a leading advocate of American स्वतंत्रता from Great Britain.
Well शिक्षित, he थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
A lawyer और पब्लिक फिगर in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और थी इसके प्राथमिक advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in यूरोपीय, he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, और थी जिम्मेदार for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist और इतिहासकार, एडम्स largely लिखा the मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780, जिससे साथ with his earlier Thoughts on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his महानतम भूमिकाएँ थी as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज Washington to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and उसके अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the दूसरी अध्यक्ष.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams हस्ताक्षरित the विवादास्पद एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों, और निर्मित up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, एडम्स थी पराजित for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He later resumed उसके दोस्ती with Jefferson.
He and his wife, Abigail Adams, founded an accomplished family line of राजनेता, राजनयिकों, और इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams, the sixth अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States.
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times, though उसके योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as मनाये as those of other Founders.
एडम्स थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the building that eventually became known as the White House.
a वाट steam engine.
The steam engine, fuelled primarily by coal, propelled the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और the world.
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to new manufacturing प्रक्रियाओं कि occurred in the काल इससे परिचय 1760 to कुछ समय between 1820 and 1840.
This transition included going from hand production methods to मशीने, नई रासायनिक निर्माण और आयरन उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं, improved efficiency of water power, the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools.
The परिवर्तन भी शामिल the change from wood and other bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial revolution began in Britain और भीतर a few दशकों स्प्रेड to पश्चिमी यूरोपीय and the United States.
The Industrial Revolution marks a major turning पाइंट in इतिहास ; लगभग प्रत्येक पहलू of daily life was influenced in some way.
Most notably, औसत आय और जनसांख्यिकी began to exhibit unprecedented sustained growth.
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas, Jr., `` For the first time in history, the living standards of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained विकास... nothing remotely जैसे इस आर्थिक बर्ताव is उल्लेखित by the शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्रियों, भी as a सैद्धांतिक possibility. ''
William Bell स्कॉट आयरन और कोयले, 1855-60
The period of समय covered by the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति varies with different historians.
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully लगा जबतक the 1830s or 1840s, जबकि T. S. एश्टन आयोजित कि it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century इतिहासकारों ऐसे as जॉन clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the process of economic and social change took place gradually and the term revolution is a misnomer.
इस is स्टिल a subject of debate among historians.
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial Revolution और the emergence of the आधुनिक पूंजीवादी अर्थव्यवस्था.
The Industrial Revolution began an era of per-capita आर्थिक विकास in capitalist economies.
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial क्रान्ति is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट in the इतिहास of मानवता चूंकि the domestication of animals and plants.
the पहला औद्योगिक क्रान्ति विकसित into the दूसरी औद्योगिक क्रान्ति in the परिवर्तन सालो between 1840 and 1870, when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats, ships and railways, the large scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories.
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न न्यूज रिपोर्टर, currently appearing on Fox News Channel.
This list ranks U.S. cities by जमीन क्षेत्रफल ( नहीं सहित लाशें of जल ).
Total areas ( including जल ) हैं भी दिए, लकिन नोट कि, जब क्रमित by total area, a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San Francisco is an extreme उदाहरण ; जल makes up nearly 80 % of its total area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily क्युकी इसके नगरपालिका सरकारी रै मिलाया साथ the सरकारी of the surrounding county.
In some cases the county no longer exists, जबकि in अन्य the व्यवस्था रै formed a संचित city–county ( or city- borough in Alaska, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These are shown in bold in the सूची नीचे ( लकिन नहीं सब उदाहरण may be indicated ).
** These are independent शहरों, अर्थ वे हैं नहीं a part of any county.
The विशाल आंत ( or bowel, कोलन ) is the last part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
Its function is to absorb water from the remaining indigestible खाना पदार्थ, और तब to pass व्यर्थ बर्बाद सामग्री इससे the body.
This article is primarily about the human आंत, हालांकि the सूचना परिचय इसके processes are directly applicable to most mammals.
The विशाल आंत consists of the cecum, rectum and anal canal.
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis, just at or below the right कमर, जहाँ it is joined to the नीचे end of the small intestine.
From here it continues up the उदर, तब आरपार the चौडाई of the abdominal गुहा, and then it turns down, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
The large intestine is about long, which is about one-fifth of the पूरे लंबाई of the intestinal canal.
In Terminologia Anatomica the large आंत शामिल the cecum, कोलन, rectum, and anal canal.
However, कुछ स्त्रोत exclude the anal canal.
The Green Bay पैकर्स हैं an अमरीकी football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the North Division of the National Football सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the एनएफएल, having महरूम व्यवस्थित और playing in 1919.
The पैकर्स हैं the तभी non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports team in the United States.
the पैकर्स हैं the पिछला vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the नाम lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) और George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` छोटी कस्बा '' टोली, इसके लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और मीडिया extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the एनएफएल ), सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ), 1968 ( Super Bowl II ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents, the शिकागो bears, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स और the Detroit Lions.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास, डेटिंग वापस to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized valley स्तिथ in the लॉस एंजिल्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, United States, defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it.
Home to 1.76 लाख लोगों, it झूठ north of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin.
Nearly two thirds of the Valley 's land area is भाग of the नगर of लॉस Angeles.
The other incorporated cities in the valley हैं ग्लेनडेल, Burbank, San Fernando, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
सैन फर्नांडो Valley, Los Angeles
The exterior of the वर्तमान संसार of coca-cola at Pemberton Place.
The World of coca-cola, is a स्थाई exhibition featuring the history of The Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions, and is located in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया ( जहाँ the कम्पनी 's मुख्यालय are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as part of जॉर्जिया 's संग्रहालय.
the complex located across Baker गली इससे centennial ओलम्पिक पार्क that is home to the Georgia Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on may 24, 2007, relocating इससे and replacing the original exhibit.
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel and the second book of the Uglies त्रयी लिखा by Scott Westerfeld.
It is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by extreme cosmetic सर्जरी upon reaching आयु 16.
It tells the story of teenager टैली youngblood जो विद्रोहियों विरूद्ध society 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26, 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to जीवन in थाना लिये murdering her children.
Born in Union, South Carolina, and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union, she was convicted on July 22, 1995 for murdering उसके दो बेटे, 3-year-old माइकल डेनियल स्मिथ, born अक्तूबर 10, 1991, और 14-month-old सिकंदर टायलर स्मिथ, born अगस्त 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed, due to उसके claiming कि a ब्लैक man stole her car and kidnapped her sons.
She later claimed that she suffered from mental health मुद्दे कि impaired उसके निर्णय.
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections, स्मिथ होगा be योग्य लिये पैरोल on November 4, 2024, after serving a minimum of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at South कैरोलिना 's leath correctional संस्था, near Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon Athabaskan language अर्थ `` the ग्रेट एक '' ) is the उच्चतम पहाड़ शिखर in the संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर अमेरिका साथ a समिट elevation of above sea level.
At some, the base to peak rise is considered the largest of any mountain situated entirely ऊपर समुद्र स्तर.
Measured by स्थलाकृतिक prominence, it is the तीसरा सबसे prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua.
Located in the अलास्का दायरा in the आंतरिक of us राज्य of अलास्का, it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve.
The first यूरोपीय to दस्तावेज़ sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794.
In 1903, जेम्स wickersham अंकित the first attempt at climbing McKinley which was unsuccessful.
In 1906, फ्रेडरिक कुक claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be false.
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was achieved on June 7, 1913 by चढना हडसन stuck, हैरी karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert Tatum.
In 1951, Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress route माना to be the safest और easiest रूट और इसलिए the most popular currently in use.
The Honda S600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Honda.
It was शुभारम्भ in March 1964.
Available as a roadster – bearing दमदार प्रतिरूप to the होंडा s500 – और as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels.
दौरान इसके उत्पादन चलाएं up to 1966, the मॉडल स्टाइलिंग would remain pretty much the same, with the most notable changes coming to the front grille, bumper, and headlights.
Powered by a DOHC, water-cooled, four-cylinder इनलाइन इंजन साथ चार carburetors, the इंजन capacity was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc.
The engine उत्पादित at 8,500 आरपीएम और had a top speed of.
With the convertible weighing in at mere, the अतिरिक्त चादर मेटल of the कूप तभी added to the overall वज़न.
Suspension was स्वतंत्र साथ sealed roller chain drive to each rear wheel.
The S600 was the first द्रव्यमान marketed होंडा car.
First offered तभी in right-hand ड्राइव, it soon became available in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets.
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured in left hand drive, दो or तीन भी होने दिखाया in कुछ जल्दी बिक्री विवरणिका.
Both the S600 roadster and coupé यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in मानक trim और a खास, upgraded पैकेज पुकारा the sm600 जिससे शामिल, among अन्य items, special paint colors, exclusive badging, a standard radio and speaker, a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor, standard reversing lights, a standard cigarette lighter, a standard heater, better cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes लिये the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris Rock ( who is also the narrator ) जबकि growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant पड़ोस of ब्रुकलीन, New York.
The show is नियत between 1983 और 1987 ; however, चट्टान खुद was a teenager between 1978 and 1983.
Rock grew up साथ a लड़के नामित केनी montero, whom he has often referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes.
In many interviews, Rock has वर्णित केनी as the कारण he got into comedy in the first place.
The show 's title parodies the सीबीएस sitcom everybody loves रेमंड.
Rock stated : `` everybody loves Raymond but Everybody Hates Chris ! ``.
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James Williams, Terry Crews, Tichina Arnold, Tequan रिचमंड, imani हकीम, और विंसेंट martella.
In Fall 2008, the The cw स्थानांतरित everybody hates क्रिस and The Game to the Friday night death slot.
The fourth ऋतु of the श्रेणी premiered शुक्रवार, October 3, 2008, at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On May 21, 2009, The cw घोषित कि it था cancelled Everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his own past—dropping आउट of ऊँची स्कूल to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show.
Pleural effusion is excess द्रव कि accumulates between the दो pleural layers, the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs.
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair श्वास by limiting the विस्तार of the lungs during ventilation.
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी वीर एपिक कविता consisting of 3182 alliterative long लाइनों, नियत in scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a single manuscript known as the nowell Codex.
Its composition by an anonymous anglo-saxon कवि is दिनाँक between the 8th and the early 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire that swept through a building housing a संग्रहण of मध्यकालीन पांडुलिपियों समवेत by सर Robert Bruce Cotton.
The poem fell into obscurity for decades, and its existence did not become widely known again जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the icelandic-danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in scandinavia, आता to the सहायता of hroðgar, the किंग of the danes, जिनकी मीड हॉल ( in heorot ) has been under attack by a monster known as Grendel.
बाद बियोवुल्फ़ जानबूझ him, Grendel 's mother attacks the hall and is then also defeated.
Victorious, बियोवुल्फ़ goes घर to geatland in स्वीडन and later becomes king of the Geats.
After a period of fifty years has passed, Beowulf defeats a ड्रैगन, लकिन is fatally wounded in the battle.
After his death, his attendants bury उसे in a tumulus, a दफ़न mound, in Geatland.
Shem Ham and Japheth by जेम्स tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew बाइबल as खूब as in इस्लामी साहित्य.
He is most popularly regarded as the eldest son, हालांकि कुछ परंपराओं लिहाज़ him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to सापेक्ष आयु of shem और उसके bhai japheth, लकिन साथ sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of eber, the bhai of japheth the elder, even to him were children born. ``.
However, the New American Standard Bible gives, `` Also to Shem, the father of all the children of eber, और the पुरानी brother of Japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम नोट, ) दो सालो बाद the बाढ़, बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the समय the बाढ़ began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this, making his age at death 600 years.
The children of Shem were Elam, asshur, arphaxad, lud, and Aram, in addition to daughters.
Abraham, the patriarch of the hebrews और arabs, थी एक of the वंशजों of Arphaxad.
इस्लामी साहित्य describes shem as one of the believing sons of Noah.
Some स्त्रोत भी पहचानो shem as a नबी in उसके अपना right and that he was the next prophet after his father.
In one Muslim legend, Shem was one of the people that God बना यीशु उठाएगा as a चिह्न to the Children of Israel.
The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus, among many others, recounted the परंपरा कि ये पाँच बेटे यहूद the progenitors of the nations of Elam, Assyria, Chaldea, Lydia, and Syria, respectively.
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages, as a उपसमुच्चय of the afro-asiatic भाषाएं, denoting the आम भाषाई heritage of Arabic, Aramaic, Akkadian, Ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers rabbah 4:8. ), shem is believed to have महरूम melchizedek, किंग of सलेम जिसको अब्राहम is अंकित to have मिले बाद the बैटल of the four kings.
In a few of the अनेक extra-biblical स्त्रोत कि describe him, Shem is also credited with killing Nimrod, son of Cush.
shem is उल्लेखित in उत्पत्ति 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown in red, Ham 's बेटे in ब्लू, shem 's बेटे in ग्रीन.
Go Daddy or Go Daddy समूह inc. is a privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily an internet domain registrar and web hosting company.
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006, but later रद्द it, due to `` मार्केट uncertainties ''.
In addition to डोमेन पंजीकरण और होस्टिंग go पापा also sells e-business related software and services.
On June 24, 2011, The Wall Street Journal reported कि private-equity firms केकेआर और चांदी झील साझेदार, साथ साथ a तीसरा investor, were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR, Silver Lake साझेदार और प्रौद्योगिकी क्रॉसओवर Ventures had closed the deal.
हालांकि the खरीदें दाम थी नहीं officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25 billion, for 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren Adelman, who था महरूम साथ the कम्पनी लिये about 10 years.
The Andorran coat of बाहें at the andorran parliament.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of Andorra ( ), also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय, स्तिथ in the पूर्वी pyrenees kyu और bordered by Spain and France.
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe, having an क्षेत्रफल of और an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 85,000 in 2012.
Its पूंजी, अंडोरा la वेला, is the उच्चतम capital city in Europe, at an elevation of above sea level.
The official language is Catalan, हालांकि स्पेनी, पुर्तगाली, और फ्रेंच हैं भी commonly spoken.
Created under a charter in 988, the उपस्थित principality थी formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by दो co-princes – the बिशप of urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly क्युकी of इसके पर्यटन उद्योग, जिससे services an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually, and also because of its status as a tax haven.
It is not a member of the यूरोपीय संघ, लकिन the euro is the de facto currency.
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life expectancy in the संसार — 82 सालो at जनम.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक निजी, coeducational शोध university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards certificates, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स डिग्री, और phds across several dozen disciplines.
the विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of Congress on February 9, 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born अक्तूबर 21, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व and occasional actress.
In 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex टेप कि subsequently resulted in a अदालत awarding her $ 5 million ; later in that same year, she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians, and its subsequent spin-offs, सहित कोर्टनी और किम लो New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
In 2010, Kardashian was the highest-earning वास्तविकता स्टार, साथ अनुमानित आय of $ 6 million.
With sisters कोर्टनी और khloé, कार्दशियन co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H.
She has been involved in the production of अनेक लाइनों of कपडे and fragrances.
In August 2011, Kardashian शादीशुदा बास्केट खिलाड़ी क्रिस humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That अक्तूबर, कार्दशियन दायर लिये divorce following 72 days of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash इससे the media, who labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 days, Kardashian and Humphries reached an undisclosed settlement at the Los Angeles Superior Court, finalizing the तलाक in अप्रैल 2013.
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and highways, 3d computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of the द्वीप
Oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` The महफ़िल प्लेस '', is the तीसरा largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
The state पूंजी, होनोलूलू, is on Oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the eastern ( windward ) coast, it has a total land area of, बनाना it the 20th largest द्वीप in the United States.
In the greatest dimension, this volcanic द्वीप is long और आरपार.
The length of the shoreline is.
The island is the result of two separate shield volcanoes : Waianae and Koolau, with a broad `` valley '' or saddle ( the सेंट्रल oahu मैदान ) between उन्हें.
The highest point is Mt. ka'ala in the waianae दायरा, उठती to above sea level.
The base करेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य is the u.S. dollar, and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At one time, however, u.S. currency included five larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, और $ 10,000 यहूद मुद्रित लिये सामान्य उपयोग, और a $ 100,000 नोट थी printed for certain internal transactions.
British होंडुरास थी a British colony in Central America.
In 1981, the colony gained full independence, और is अभी the स्वतंत्र nation of Belize.
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th सदी, the territory on the ईस्ट coast of सेंट्रल अमेरिका, दक्षिण of Mexico, became a British crown colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing उपनिवेश.
बेलीज़ became fully independent from the United Kingdom in 1981.
Belize was the last महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा of the United Kingdom in the Americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel wheat, or hulled गेहूं, is an प्राचीन प्रजाति of गेहूं from the fifth millennium BC.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to मध्यकालीन टाइम्स ; it अभी survives as a relict क्रॉप in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय और उत्तरी स्पेन और रै मिला a नई मार्केट as a health food.
Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum ), in जिससे मामला इसके वनस्पति name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid wheat, which means it रै छह सेट of गुणसूत्रों.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective created by author and चिकित्सक सर आर्थर कोनन डोयल.
A london-based `` परामर्श जासूस '' जिनकी abilities किनारा on the fantastic, holmes is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके कुटिल लॉजिकल तर्क, उसके क्षमता to adopt almost any disguise, and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.
Holmes, जो पहला appeared in प्रकाशन in 1887, थी प्रदर्शित in four novels and 56 short stories.
The first novel, A Study in Scarlet, appeared in beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और the दूसरी, The Sign of the Four, in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the पहला श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां in the strand पत्रिका, शुरूआत साथ a कांड in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further series of short stories and two novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927.
The stories cover a काल इससे around 1880 up to 1914.
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer, Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's Mane `` ) and two others are written in the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the mazarin स्टोन `` and `` His Last Bow `` ).
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ), holmes tells वाटसन the प्रमुख स्टोरी इससे उसके यादें, while Watson becomes the narrator of the frame story.
The पहला और चौथी novels, a पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट और the घाटी of भय, प्रत्येक शामिल a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson.
The United States हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
The other house is the सीनेट.
The composition and powers of the House are स्थापित in आलेख एक of the संयुक्त States Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is हकदार to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि.
The most populous राज्य, California, currently has 53 representatives.
The total number of voting प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by विधि at 435.
Each प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year term.
the स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, जो presides over the कक्ष, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the south wing of the United राज्य कैपिटल.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to u.s.-based kraft भोजन लिये a क्रमांक of जिलेटिन desserts, including fruit gels, puddings and no-bake cream pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it being used as a जेनेरिक पद लिये जिलेटिन मिठाई आरपार the u.S. और कनाडा.
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West mifflin, पेन्सिलवेनिया, a उपनगरीय of Pittsburgh.
The पार्क पहला खोली in 1898 as a `` ट्राली park '' attraction at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway.
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan and thus began the Kennywood Entertainment कम्पनी कि रै remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार for over 100 years.
This traditional amusement park स्टिल रै structures और यात्राएँ डेटिंग वापस to इसके खोलने and the early 1900s.
Along with Rye Playland Park, it is one of only two amusement parks सूचीबद्ध in the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक Places.
Kennywood is owned by kennywood entertainment कम्पनी, which until December 2007 was a closely held family business owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families.
Kennywood Entertainment is अभी संचालित by california-based राजमहल entertainment, a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos, an international amusement park company based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of candover निवेश, an निवेश fund based in the UK.
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement फलक in 1943 to a अभी deceased person.
In the United States, a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit क्रमांक जारी to u.S. नागरिकों, स्थाई निवासियों, and temporary ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act, codified as.
The number is issued to an individual by the Social Security Administration, an स्वतंत्र एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी.
Its primary purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on रूप ss-5, `` अनुप्रयोग लिये a सोशल सुरक्षा Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art और डिज़ाइन, विशेषकर विज़ुअल आर्ट और म्यूज़िक, जहाँ the कार्य is set out to expose the essence or identity of a subject through eliminating all non-essential forms, features or concepts.
Minimalism is कोई डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल in which the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect.
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–world युद्ध ii पश्चिमी आर्ट, सबसे strongly साथ अमरीकी विज़ुअल कला in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd, John McCracken, Agnes Martin, Dan Flavin, Robert Morris, ऐनी truitt, और फ़्रैंक Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism, and is often interpreted as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध अमूर्त अभिव्यंजनावाद and a bridge to Postminimal art practices.
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in म्यूज़िक जिससे सुविधाएँ repetition और iteration, as in the compositions of La Monte Young, Terry Riley, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
अल्पतम रचनाएं are sometimes known as systems music.
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything कि is अतिरिक्त or stripped to its essentials.
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett, the films of Robert bresson, the कहानियां of रेमंड carver, और भी the ऑटोमोबाइल डिजाइन of कोलिन Chapman.
The word was first used in अंग्रेज़ी in the जल्दी 20th century to describe the Mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of आंशिक pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल दबाव exerted by the मिश्रण of non-reactive गैसों is बराबर to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
This empirical law थी observed by जॉन डाल्टन in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas laws.
mathematically, the दबाव of a mixture of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the partial pressure of प्रत्येक घटक.
It is assumed that the gases do नहीं प्रतिक्रिया साथ प्रत्येक अन्य
where is the mole fraction of the i-th component in the कुल मिश्रण of n components.
The संबंध नीचे provides a रास्ता to determine the volume based concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the विशेषज्ञता of the i-th घटक expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's law is not exactly followed by रियल गैसों.
Those deviations हैं considerably large at high pressures.
In such conditions, the आवाज़ occupied by the अणुओं can become significant compared to the free space between them.
In particular, the short average distances between molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular शक्तियां between गैस अणुओं पर्याप्त to substantially change the pressure exerted by them.
Neither of those प्रभाव हैं माना by the ideal gas model.
This is a list of the largest United राज्य कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों by नामांकन लिये कॉलेजों और universities in the United States.
कया इस list includes:
Colleges and universities भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य
University प्रणालियों if the प्रणाली is चलाएं under a single administration
Enrollment is the योग of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate students
Enrollment is गिने by the एकीकृत Post-secondary Education System within the U.S. Department of Education.
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the number of अद्वितीय विद्यार्थी जो attended the विश्वविद्यालयों दौरान the year.
What this सूची करता नहीं include:
Any indication of how many of the नामांकित विद्यार्थी हैं पूरा or भाग समय ( e.g., कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों may have a high enrollment, but have most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that measure university नामांकन, देखिए the देखिए भी खण्ड नीचे.
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by अमरीकी rapper flo rida, released as the सीसे single from his second studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
the सोंग सुविधाएँ अतिथि vocals from Kesha.
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was digitally released on 10 फ़रवरी by पो लड़के entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball referee enthusiasm, while adapting the कोरस of the 1984 मुर्दे or जिंदा सोंग `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the song 's writers, the कोरस refers to मौखिक sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song, but in the United States, during the run atop the चार्ट, kesha थी uncredited.
The song प्राप्त ज़्यादातर negative reviews from critics, who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic.
However, it was a commercial success, reaching the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in nineteen countries worldwide.
In the United States, it became flo rida 's दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke the रिकार्ड for first-week sales when it was released to digital retailers.
The single 's accompanying music video was directed by मैल्कम जोन्स और मनोनीत for an MTV Video Music Award.
The song has been प्रयुक्त in अनेक फिल्मों, ऐसे as the hangover, The Ugly Truth and the Telugu movie Pilla Zamindar.
In the movie Pitch Perfect, the song is performed by the a cappella समूह the Treblemakers.
The Chief Justice of the United States is the सिर of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अदालत प्रणाली ( the न्यायिक शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Chief Justice is एक of नौ परम् अदालत justices ; the other eight are the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
From 1789 until 1866, the office was ज्ञात as the मुख्य इंसाफ of the परम् Court.
The मुख्य इंसाफ is the उच्चतम न्यायिक अधिकारी in the देश, और अधिनियमों as a मुख्य प्रशासनिक अधिकारी लिये the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
The Chief इंसाफ भी serves as a प्रवक्ता for the judicial branch.
The Chief Justice लीड the कारोबार of the Supreme Court.
He presides over oral वितर्क पहले the अदालत.
When the अदालत renders an राय, the मुख्य justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion.
The Chief Justice also has significant agenda-setting शक्ति over the अदालत 's बैठक.
In the case of an महाभियोग of a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, जिससे रै occurred twice, the Chief Justice presides over the trial in the Senate.
In modern tradition, the Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of administering the शपथ of दफ्तर of the President of the United States.
The first मुख्य इंसाफ थी John Jay.
The 17th and current Chief इंसाफ is जॉन G. रॉबर्ट्स, Jr.
Caribou near Prudhoe खाड़ी, 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a large आयल फ़ील्ड on अलास्का 's North Slope.
It is the largest आयल फ़ील्ड in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर अमेरिका, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The amount of recoverable आयल in the फ़ील्ड is अधिक than दोगुना कि of the अगला largest field in the United States, the East Texas oil field.
The फ़ील्ड is संचालित by bp ; साझेदार are ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips Alaska.
मजदूर संघ हैं legally पहचाना as प्रतिनिधि of workers in many industries in the United States.
Their activity today centers on सामूहिक bargaining over मजदूरी, लाभ, और working शर्तें for their membership, and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions.
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities और electioneering at the राज्य और संघीय level.
Most संघ in अमेरिका हैं लकीर साथ एक of दो larger umbrella organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005.
Both advocate policies and विधान on निमित्त of मजदूर in the संयुक्त States and Canada, and take an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is especially concerned with global trade issues.
In 2010, the percentage of workers belonging to a संघ in the संयुक्त राज्य ( or कुल मजदूर संघ `` घनत्व '' ) थी 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in Germany, 27.5 % in Canada, and 70 % in Finland.
Union membership in the private sector has गिरे अंतर्गत 7 % — स्तर नहीं seen since 1932.
Unions allege that employer-incited विपक्ष रै contributed to इस मनाही in membership.
The most prominent unions are among पब्लिक सेक्टर कर्मचारी such as teachers and police.
Members of unions are disproportionately older, पुरूष और निवासियों of the पूर्वोत्तर, the मिडवेस्ट, and California.
Union workers average 10-30 % उच्चतर अदा than non-union in अमेरिका बाद controlling for individual, job, and labor market characteristics.
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s, American unions remain a prominent राजनैतिक फ़ैक्टर, दोनो through mobilization of उनके अपना सदस्यताएँ और through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights, trade policy, health care, and living wage campaigns.
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs, unions are currently advocating new `` card जाँच `` संघीय विधान कि होता आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to सौदेबाजी साथ a संघ if अधिक than 50 % of मजदूर signed forms, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The current कार्यविधि involves प्रतीक्षारत 45 to 90 दिनों लिये a federally supervised secret-ballot employee referendum on the subject.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce असमानता, whereas weaker संघ have बना it easier लिये ceos, sometimes working साथ market forces that they have helped shape, to increase it. ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the United States has been associated with a सुनाया वृद्धि in आय और माल असमानता.
A Christian lacroix फ़ैशन boutique
A boutique is a small shopping outlet, विशेषकर एक कि specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry.
The word is French for `` shop '', via Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into रोज अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग in the लेट 1960s जब, लिये a brief period, London was the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street and the Kings सड़क यहूद the focus of much media attention as home to the most fashionable boutiques of the era.
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more Boutiques पॉप up in फैशनेबल क्षेत्रों, ऐसे as Tower Bridge Road.
it can भी refer to a specialised firm such as a boutique investment bank or boutique law firm.
The word is often used to describe a प्रॉपर्टी in the स्वतंत्र खण्ड of the होटल मार्केट ( ऐसे as the Rockwell in London ) in order to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In such cases the establishments उद्देश्य to convey the विचार कि the आपरेशन is elite and highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques होता be one-of-a-kind लकिन अधिक generally बोलना, कुछ जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular styles.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or उत्पादित in intentionally छोटी संख्याएँ at बहुत high prices.
This may be referred to as बुटीक manufacturing.
For example, before the release of the Wii, a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` बुटीक video-game कम्पनी '', producing खेल लिये niche audiences, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is considered as the precursor in निर्माण और बिक्री of bespoke watches.
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique manufacturing site, जिससे allows producing छोटी श्रेणी or भी अद्वितीय timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items और अन्य truly one-of-a-kind वस्तुएं, अन्य बस उपज t-shirts, स्टिकर, और अन्य फ़ैशन accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices.
In the early 1990s Selena प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके own line of women 's clothing.
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc. बुटीक & सैलून '' एक स्तिथ in कॉर्पस christi और एक स्तिथ in San Antonio, Texas.
One थी due to खोलें in Monterrey, Mexico, in 1995 but due to her death it was not opened.
Around 1999 the सैन अंतोनियो स्थान बंद और the कॉर्पस Christi location was closed in 2009.
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle theme, in the form of `` concept stores '', which specialised in cross-selling बगैर using पृथक विभाग.
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in Milan, इटली followed by colette in पेरिस और quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters, D-A-S-H, and The Gap, Australian chain Billabong and, though less common, Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit संघ ( or नेवी संघीय ) is a क्रेडिट संघ headquartered in वियना, वर्जिनिया, chartered and regulated under the authority of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest natural सदस्य ( or खुदरा ) क्रेडिट संघ in the संसार, दोनो in asset size and in membership.
As of September 2012, Navy Federal had over $ 50 billion usd in एसेट, और over 4 लाख members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), known by his stage name Stevie Wonder, is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, a चाइल्ड prodigy जो विकसित into एक of the सबसे रचनात्मक musical आंकड़े of the लेट 20th century.
Blind since shortly after birth, Wonder signed with Motown 's tamla लेबल at the आयु of ग्यारह, और continues to perform and record for Motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition ``, `` Sir Duke ``, `` You हैं the सनशाइन of my जीवन `` और `` i बस पुकारा to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also include Talking Book, innervisions और गीतों in the कुंजी of जीवन.
he रै अंकित अधिक than तीस u.S. शीर्ष टेन हिट्स और प्राप्त twenty-two Grammy Awards, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for political causes, including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther किंग, jr. 's जन्मदिवस a अवकाश in the United States.
In 2009, अचरज थी नामित a United Nations Messenger of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 all-time शीर्ष कलाकारों to celebrate the us singles चार्ट 's fiftieth anniversary, with Wonder at number five.
By popular vote, Stevie was inducted into The soulmusic हॉल of कीर्ति at soulmusic.com in December 2012.
Psychosis ( from the यूनानी ψυχή `` psyche '', लिये mind/soul, और -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '', लिये असामान्य कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind, and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality ``.
People suffering from psychosis are वर्णित as psychotic.
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of मनोरोग विकार, दौरान जिससे मति and delusions, gross excitement or stupor and impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything from relatively सामान्य aberrant अनुभवों through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder.
Moreover a wide किस्में of सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली रोगों, इससे दोनो external substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of psychosis.
This led many professionals to say that psychosis is not specific enough as a निदान पद.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( ऋणात्मक लक्षण ) और अधिक commonly to विविध प्रकार of मति or delusional मान्यताओं ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting बहुत स्पष्ट लक्षण may be वर्णित as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the धनात्मक लक्षण of मनस्ताप, विशेषकर those of schizophrenia.
इस is विचार to occur through a यांत्रिकी of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs तदनुसार निशाना the dopamine प्रणाली ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of these drugs, however, show either no significant difference between drug and placebo, or a very small effect size, suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing psychosis may प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व changes and thought disorder.
Depending on इसके गंभीरता, इस may be accompanied by असामान्य or विचित्र बर्ताव, as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities.
General Grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the Star Wars universe.
A recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a राजनैतिक गुट of ग्रहीय प्रणालियों waging war on the Galactic Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count Dooku, he is a निष्ठुर और शक्तिशाली योद्धा devoted to जेडी 's विनाश दौरान the Clone Wars.
His acts of wanton आक्रामकता और ऊँची जेडी देह गिनती would prompt the galaxy to give him the nickname the Knightslayer.
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the Clone Wars who had killed the सबसे जेडी in सिंगल कॉम्बैट, he किया नहीं संकोच to भागो इससे लड़ाइयों he knew he would lose.
Statistics play an important role in summarizing baseball प्रदर्शन और evaluating खिलाड़ी in the sport.
Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it, and normally players act individually बल्कि than performing in क्लस्टर, the खेल lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics.
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball since the सृष्टि of the नेशनल लीग और अमरीकी लीग, अभी भाग of Major League Baseball.
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball, from लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ of पेशेवर Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues.
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts अक्षम मटर pickers in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, centering on फ्लोरेंस ओवेन्स थॉम्पसन, age 32, a mother of seven children, in Nipomo, California, March 1936.
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60, with the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The बेरोजगारी रेट in the us 1910–1960, साथ the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide आर्थिक अवसाद in the दशक preceding World War II.
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations, but in most countries it started in 1930 and lasted until the लेट 1930s or मध्य 1940s.
It was the longest, सबसे फैली, and deepest depression of the 20th century.
In the 21st century, the ग्रेट अवसाद is commonly प्रयुक्त as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline.
The depression originated in the U.S., after the fall in भण्डार कीमतें कि began around सितंबर 4, 1929, और became विश्वव्यापी news with the stock market crash of October 29, 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ).
The Great Depression had विनाशकारी effects in countries rich and poor.
Personal income, tax revenue, profits और prices dropped, while international trade plunged by more than 50 %.
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 %, और in कुछ देशों रोज़ as high as 33 %.
Cities all around the संसार यहूद hit मुश्किल, especially those dependent on heavy industry.
Construction was virtually halted in अनेक देशों.
Farming and rural areas suffered as crop कीमतें गिरी by लगभग 60 %.
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of jobs, areas निर्भर on प्राथमिक सेक्टर उद्योग ऐसे as नकदी cropping, mining and logging suffered the most.
Some economies प्रारंभ to recover by the mid-1930s.
In many countries, the negative effects of the Great अवसाद lasted जबतक the समाप्त of World War II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ), also ज्ञात as a असामयिक ventricular जटिल, ventricular असामयिक संकुचन ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ), ventricular असामयिक ताल ( vpb ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a अपेक्षाकृत common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node, the normal heartbeat initiator.
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped beat `` or felt as palpitations in the छाती.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles अनुबंध बाद the atria have helped to भरण उन्हें by contracting ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract first और पहले the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with blood, which means that circulation is inefficient.
However, सिंगल ताल पीवीसी arrhythmias do नहीं प्रायः pose a danger and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William Gary Busey ( born June 29, 1944 ), better known as गेरी busey, is an अमरीकी फिल्मी और स्टेज actor, and artist.
He has appeared in a किस्में of films, सहित lethal हथियार, पाइंट ब्रेक, and Under Siege, as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, Walker, Texas Ranger, Law & Order, and Entourage.
He was मनोनीत लिये an अकादमी Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ), is a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing international standards लिये बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों enforcement.
The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods, generic medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet, and would create a new governing body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the संसार बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी संगठन, or the संयुक्त राष्ट्र.
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा, जापानी, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States.
in 2012, मैक्सिको, the European Union and 22 countries which are member states of the European Union signed as well.
One signatory ( जापानी ) रै ratified ( formally स्वीकृत ) the agreement, which would come into force in countries that ratified it after ratification by six countries.
Supporters have वर्णित the अनुबंध as a जवाब to `` the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations ऐसे as the गति चित्र संघ of अमेरिका और फार्मास्युटिकल Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों कह the सम्मेलन adversely affects आधारभूत rights including freedom of expression and privacy.
ACTA has also been criticised by डॉक्टर बगैर सीमायें लिये endangering अभिगम to medicines in developing countries.
The secret nature of negotiations रै excluded सिविल समाज समूह, विकासशील देशों और the सामान्य पब्लिक इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम और it has been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The हस्ताक्षर of the eu और अनेक of इसके सदस्य राज्य resulted in the इस्तीफा in विरोध of the European Parliament 's appointed chief investigator, rapporteur Kader Arif, as well as widespread protests across Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, British MEP David Martin, recommended against the treaty, stating : `` The intended benefits of this अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध हैं दूर outweighed by the संभावित खतरे to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary session, with 478 मतदान विरूद्ध the सन्धि, 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining.
FAW semi-trailer truck in चीन
Tractor with side डम्प ट्रेलर semi-trailer
A ट्रैक्टर साथ an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer truck साथ स्लीपर behind the cab.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle that consists of a towing engine, known as a tractor in the United States और ट्रक in अनेक अन्य स्थान, संलग्न to एक or अधिक semi-trailers to carry भाड़ा.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in Australia, semi, tractor-trailer, truck and trailer, transfer truck, 18-wheeler, mack truck, big रिग in the संयुक्त राज्य, or artic, छोटी लिये articulated lorry, in Britain and Ireland.
A semi-trailer does नहीं ट्रेल completely पीछे the towing गाडी, लकिन is संलग्न at a पाइंट that is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit.
This is done so that a fraction of the वज़न of the ट्रेलर is carried by the prime mover.
This व्यवस्था अर्थात् कि दोनो ट्रैक्टर और semi-trailer will have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer.
The Pittsburgh Steelers are a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in पिट्सबर्ग, Pennsylvania.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
Founded in, the स्टीलर्स हैं the oldest मताधिकार in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( six ), won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen ) and hosted more ( eleven ) सम्मेलन चैंपियनशिप खेल than कोई अन्य afc or nfc टोली.
The स्टीलर्स share the record for most Super Bowl appearances with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers won their most recent चैंपियनशिप, सुपर कटोरी xliii, on February 1, 2009.
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8, 1933, by आर्ट रूनी, लेने इसके असली नाम from the baseball team of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The ownership of the Steelers रै remained भीतर the रूनी परिवार since its founding.
The current owner is Art 's son, Dan रूनी, जो रै दिए much कंट्रोल of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's फ्लैगशिप टीमों, the स्टीलर्स आनंद a large, widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation.
The Steelers फिलहाल खेल उनके घर खेल at हाइन्ज़ फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's North Side in the North Shore neighborhood, which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced तीन नदियाँ स्टेडियम which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons.
Prior to Three Rivers, the स्टीलर्स था निभाई their games in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three अलग kinds of गेहूं and rye flour
Flour is a powder which is made by grinding cereal grains, or अन्य बीज or जड़ें ( like Cassava ).
It is the main ingredient of bread, which is a staple food for many cultures, बनाना the उपलब्धता of पर्याप्त आपूर्तियाँ of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in European, North American, Middle Eastern, भारतीय और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों, और is the धमक ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries.
While wheat is the most common base for flour, corn flour has been important in Mesoamerican cuisine since ancient times, और remains a स्टेपल throughout the americas.
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe, and rice can also be प्रयुक्त in आटा, हालांकि इस is अपेक्षाकृत uncommon.
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats per unit of time, typically expressed as बीट्स प्रति मिनट ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the देह 's need to अवशोषित ऑक्सीजन और excrete कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड परिवर्तन, such as during physical exercise, sleep, illness, or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous प्रणाली stimulants ऐसे as amphetamines increase heart rate.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल रेट ( अलावा इससे कुछ विशेषकर strange ones with equally strange effects, such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ).
वहीँ हैं अनेक ways in which the heart rate speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain, अनेक of जिससे हैं those कि हैं 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume, one of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार अधिक oxygen to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
Normal resting heart rates दायरा इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is defined as a resting दिल rate below 60 bpm.
However, heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm are common among स्वस्थ लोगों और do नहीं necessarily आवश्यकता खास ध्यान.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting दिल रेट ऊपर 100 bpm, हालांकि persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm, mainly if they are present during sleep, may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded राजतिलक कोच ( hermitage संग्रहालय )
A carriage is a wheeled गाडी लिये लोगों, प्रायः horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded, since they are wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is विशेषकर designed लिये निजी यात्री उपयोग and for comfort or elegance, though some are also used to transport goods.
It may be light, smart and fast or heavy, विशाल और आरामदायक.
Carriages normally have suspension using leaf springs, अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in the 19th सदी ) or leather strapping.
A public passenger vehicle would not प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – शर्तें लिये ऐसे शामिल stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working वाहनों ऐसे as the ( four-wheeled ) वैगन और ( two-wheeled ) कार्ट share important parts of the history of the carriage, as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 utc on संडे, 26 दिसम्बर 2004, साथ an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is known by the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.
The resulting tsunami was given various names, including the 2004 भारतीय समंदर सुनामी, दक्षिण एशियाई सुनामी, इंडोनेशियाई tsunami, and the Boxing Day tsunami.
The earthquake was caused by subduction और triggered a श्रेणी of विनाशकारी tsunamis साथ the coasts of सबसे landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean, killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries, and inundating coastal communities with waves up to high.
It was एक of the deadliest प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in recorded history.
Indonesia was the hardest-hit देश, followed by श्री Lanka, India, and Thailand.
With a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3, it is the तीसरा largest भूकंप ever recorded on a seismograph.
The earthquake had the longest duration of faulting कभी observed, between 8.3 and 10 minutes.
It caused the entire planet to vibrate as much as और triggered अन्य भूकंप as far away as Alaska.
इसके epicentre थी between simeulue and mainland Indonesia.
The plight of the affected people और देशों prompted a worldwide humanitarian response.
In all, the विश्वव्यापी जातियाँ दान अधिक than $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam rising from the nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
geothermal उर्जा is थर्मल energy generated and stored in the Earth.
थर्मल energy is the energy that determines the temperature of matter.
the geothermal उर्जा of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the अंतर in तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ), अर्थ धरती, और θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the कोर of the धरती, थर्मल energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding कूलर चट्टान.
The ऊँची तापमान और दबाव कारण some rock to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The मैग्मा heats चट्टान और जल in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal शक्ति is ऑनलाइन in 24 countries.
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space हीटिंग, स्पा, औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, but has historically महरूम सीमित to क्षेत्रों निकट tectonic थाली सीमाएँ.
Recent technological advances have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the धरती, लकिन ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a परिणाम, geothermal शक्ति रै the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The धरती 's geothermal संसाधन are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's energy needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन is very expensive.
Forecasts for the भविष्य of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers होता be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a बेदर्दी energy source like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted research and industry अनुभव, the लागत of generating geothermal शक्ति has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal energy लागत between दो और टेन सेंट per kwh.
the पद घन पैर is an इम्पीरियल और us प्रथागत ( non- metric ) unit of volume, used in the United States and the United Kingdom.
It is पारिभाषित as the आवाज़ of a cube with sides of one foot ( 0.3048 m ) in length.
To calculate cubic feet गुणा लंबाई x width X height.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ), born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất thành और nguyễn ái quốc, थी a वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट क्रांतिकारी नेता जो थी प्रधान मंत्री ( 1945–1955 ) और अध्यक्ष ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
He was a key figure in the foundation of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945, as खूब as the people’s फौज of वियतनाम ( PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
He led the Việt Minh स्वतंत्रता गति इससे 1941 onward, establishing the कम्युनिस्ट -नियमd लोकतांत्रिक Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down from power in 1955 due to health problems, but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration for those Vietnamese लड़ लिये उसके cause—a संयुक्त, कम्युनिस्ट Vietnam—until his death.
After the war, Saigon, capital of the गणतंत्र of वियतनाम, थी renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
All सड़कें सीसे घर is a feature film released on September 26, 2008.
Directed by Dennis Fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason London, Vivien cardone, वैनेसा शाखा, पीटर कायोटी, स्टीफन Milton, and Allan Kayser.
The movie was filmed in and around कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी.
The movie made इसके संसार प्रीमियर जनवरी 27 at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival.
The फिल्मी रै भी recently महरूम in several film festivals, and has received bad reviews.
Peter Boyle died पहले the movie 's release.
It was the last फिल्म he appeared in.
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes placed on the बिक्री or पट्टे of goods और सेवाएं in the United States.
While no national सामान्य बिक्री कर exists, the संघीय सरकारी levies several national selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods and services.
Furthermore, forty-five states, the District of Columbia, and Guam थोपने सामान्य बिक्री कर कि लागू to the बिक्री or पट्टे of सबसे goods और कुछ सेवाएं, and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services.
States may also delegate to local governments the प्राधिकार to थोपने अतिरिक्त सामान्य or selective sales taxes.
Sales tax is गणना by multiplying the purchase price by the applicable tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार और दायरा इससे less than 1 % to over 10 %.
Sales कर is एकत्रित by the seller at the time of sale.
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who रै नहीं सशुल्क बिक्री कर on a taxable खरीदें.
Unlike the value added tax, a sales कर is imposed तभी एकबार, at the retail level.
However, in cases where वस्तुएं हैं बेची at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार, such as used cars, the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely.
The definition of retail sales और कया goods और सेवाएं हैं taxable vary among the states.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods and services that are exempt from sales tax, or taxed at reduced rates.
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or लिये पुनर्विक्रय is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in grocery stores, prescription medications, और अनेक agricultural आपूर्तियाँ.
Sales taxes, including those imposed by local governments, are generally administered at the राज्य स्तर.
States imposing sales कर आवश्यकता खुदरा विक्रेता to collect tax from customers, file returns, and remit the tax to the state.
प्रक्रियात्मक नियम vary widely.
Sellers generally must collect कर इससे in-state purchasers जबतक the क्रेता provides an exemption certificate.
Most states allow or require इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance.
A central processing unit ( CPU ), भी referred to as a सेंट्रल प्रोसेसर ईकाई, is the हार्डवेयर भीतर a कंप्यूटर कि carries आउट the निर्देश of a कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम by performing the basic arithmetical, logical, and input/output operations of the system.
The term has महरूम in उपयोग in the कंप्यूटर उद्योग at least since the early 1960s.
The form, design, and implementation of CPUs have changed over the कोर्स of उनके इतिहास, लकिन उनके आधारभूत operation remains much the same.
A computer can have अधिक than एक cpu ; इस is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain अनेक cpu on a single chip ; those ICs are called multi-core processors.
Two typical components of a cpu हैं the गणित लॉजिक ईकाई ( alu ), जिससे performs गणित and logical operations, and the control unit ( CU ), which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them, calling on the ALU when necessary.
Not all computational systems rely on a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई.
An array processor or vector processor has multiple parallel कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व, साथ no एक ईकाई माना the `` बीच ''.
In the वितरित कम्प्यूटिंग मॉडल, समस्याएं हैं solved by a distributed interconnected set of processors.
RFID chip next to a अनाज of राइस.
This chip contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer products, और implanted in पालतु, लिये पहचान purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, लिये the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
the टैग contain electronically stored information.
Some tags are powered and read at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of मीटर.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does नहीं necessarily need to be भीतर line of sight of the reader, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID tags are used in अनेक उद्योग.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track इसके प्रगति through the सभा लकीर.
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and पालतु may have टैग injected, allowing positive identification of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted भीतर लोगों, the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना without consent has raised privacy concerns.
ओवरटाइम is the राशि of time someone works beyond normal working hours.
सामान्य घंटों may be संकल्पित in several ways:
by कस्टम ( कया is considered healthy or reasonable by society ),
by practices of a दिए व्यापार or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between employers and मजदूर or उनके प्रतिनिधि.
Most nations have overtime labor laws designed to dissuade or prevent नियोक्ता इससे forcing उनके कर्मचारी to कार्य excessively long घंटों.
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian, ऐसे as preserving the स्वास्थ्य of मजदूर so कि वे may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One common दृष्टिकोण to regulating ओवरटाइम is to require employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work.
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by विधि, विशेषकर if वे मानना कि वे फेस a पिछड़ा झुकने सप्लाई curve of labour.
Overtime pay rates can कारण मजदूर to कार्य longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate.
Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly इससे देश to देश और between अलग economic sectors.
Visualization of links between पृष्ठों on a विक using a force-directed layout.
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a क्लास of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as possible, by assigning शक्तियां among the नियत of किनारे और the नियत of नोड, आधारित on उनके सापेक्ष स्थितियाँ, और तब using ये शक्तियां either to सिमुलेट the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy.
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, being physical simulations, usually require no खास ज्ञान परिचय आलेख सिद्धान्त ऐसे as planarity.
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively पुकारा समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) is the राशि of goods or services that can be purchased with a unit of currency.
For उदाहरण, if तुम था लिया एक डालर to a स्टोर in the 1950s, तुम होता have महरूम able to buy a greater number of items than you would today, indicating that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a commodity money, like gold or silver, or fiat करेंसी, or free-floating market-valued करेंसी like US dollars.
As Adam Smith विख्यात, having धन देता एक the क्षमता to `` कमांड '' अन्य ' labor, so purchasing power to some extent is power over other people, to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency.
If one 's monetary income stays the वही, लकिन the दाम स्तर increases, the खरीदना power of that income falls.
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's धन आय चूंकि it may वृद्धि faster than the price level.
A higher real income means a higher purchasing power since real income refers to the आय समायोजित लिये महंगाई.
For a price index, its value in the आधार साल is प्रायः normalized to a value of 100.
The purchasing power of a unit of करेंसी, कह a डालर, in a दिए साल, expressed in dollars of the base year, is 100/P, where P is the price index in that year.
So, by definition the purchasing शक्ति of a डालर decreases as the price level rises.
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money, t years into the भविष्य, can be computed साथ the सूत्र लिये the उपस्थित value :
where in this case i is an assumed future annual महंगाई रेट.
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for success and प्रतियोगिता is consequently very heated and fierce.
A central administration oversees the process for the शिक्षा of children इससे kindergarten to the third and final year of high school.
Mathematics, science, Korean, अंग्रेज़ी, और सोशल अध्ययन हैं generally माना to be the most important subjects.
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised, by the generally academic elitist दक्षिण कोरियाई populace, as शिक्षा और इसलिए अनेक स्कूलों lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
South Korea was the first country in the world to provide high-speed अंतरजाल अभिगम to सब प्राथमिक, जूनियर, and high schools.
Although South Korean विद्यार्थी प्रायः रैंक अत्यधिक on अंतरराष्ट्रीय तुलनात्मक आकलन जब compared to students of most Western education systems, the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South Korean education system is rather notably strict and overly structured as compared to इसके counterparts in सबसे पश्चिमी societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes ऐसे as अकादमियों or cram-schools ( hagwon [ 학원 ] ), जिससे too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual understanding, in students are criticised as a major social problem.
The My Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) थी the वियतनाम युद्ध द्रव्यमान हत्या of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे civilians in South Vietnam on March 16, 1968, by United States Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 11th Brigade of the Americal Division.
Victims शामिल महिलाओं, मेन, children, and infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated और अनेक महिलाओं यहूद allegedly raped prior to the हत्याओं.
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially चार्ज साथ दण्ड offenses लिये उनके क्रियाएँ at Mỹ Lai, only Second Lieutenant William Calley, a platoon leader in Charlie Company, was convicted.
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers, he was originally दिए a जीवन वाक्य, लकिन तभी परोसा three and a half years under house arrest.
The नरसंहार took प्लेस in the hamlets of My Lai and My Khe of Son My village.
The event is also ज्ञात as the बेटे my नरसंहार, विशेषकर in the Vietnamese state media.
the u.S. सैन्य codeword for the `` Viet Cong stronghold '' was `` Pinkville ''.
The incident prompted global आक्रोश जब it became पब्लिक knowledge in 1969.
The massacre also increased domestic विपक्ष to the u.S. भागीदारी in the वियतनाम War.
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre and protect the wounded were initially denounced by अनेक u.s. कांग्रेसियों as traitors.
They received hate mail and death threats and found mutilated पशु on उनके doorsteps.
The three were later widely praised and सजा by the फौज लिये उनके heroic actions.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were 19 men संबद्ध साथ al-qaeda, और 15 of the 19 यहूद citizens of Saudi Arabia.
अन्य यहूद इससे Egypt, Lebanon, and the UAE.
The hijackers were व्यवस्थित into चार टीमों, प्रत्येक led by a pilot-trained hijacker साथ चार `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-hazmi, जो settled in the सैन डिएगो क्षेत्रफल in January 2000.
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots, Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-shehhi, और ziad jarrah जल्दी in the गर्मियाँ of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, hani hanjour, arrived in San Diego in December 2000.
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early गर्मियाँ of 2001, बस महीने before the September 11 attacks.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd allāh इब्न ʿabd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ), also transliterated as Muhammad ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
he is believed by मुसलमान and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is लगभग universally माना by मुसलमान as the last prophet sent by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider उसे to be the restorer of an अनछुए असली monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian नगर of मक्का, he थी अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a गड़रिये, और was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three सालो बाद इस इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, और कि he खुद थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of परमेश्वर, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद treated harshly.
To escape persecution, मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी calendar, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the tribes under the संविधान of मदीना.
After eight years of fighting with the meccan जनजातियों, उसके अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by तब था grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers आउट to नष्ट सब of the बाकी pagan मंदिरों in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few months after returning to Medina from the विदाई यात्राएं, मुहम्मद fell ill and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian प्रायद्वीप था परिवर्तित to islam, और he था संयुक्त अरब into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the कुरान, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' और around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the sources of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad और अन्य नबियों of islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास have महरूम दूर कम so.
This is a सूची of टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध, ऐसे as the जराविद्या Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent van Gogh जब वो थी 12 or 13.
This led to news media ध्यान in 1985, बाद calment turned 110.
subsequent छानबीन मिला दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये calment 's age, beyond any reasonable question, in the records of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the आयु of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of jiroemon किमुरा, जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी और is आयु as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States, on 17 December 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति in the world whose age can be documented.
he रै भी महरूम the oldest जीना man चूंकि the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year बूढ़ा koto okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
इस is a समयरेखा of the African-American Civil Rights Movement.
The सिविल अधिकारों गति थी a स्वतंत्रता struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the movement were स्वतंत्रता इससे पक्षपात, बराबर अवसर in नियुक्ति, शिक्षा और housing, the right to vote and equal access to public facilities.
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a विधा of चट्टान म्यूज़िक कि विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With roots in blues चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, the bands कि निर्मित भारी मेटल developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance शैलियाँ हैं generally संबद्ध with masculinity and machismo.
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and ब्लैक sabbath आकर्षित विशाल ऑडियंस, हालांकि they were often derided by critics, a status common throughout the history of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the विधा 's एवोल्यूशन by discarding much of its blues influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed.
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy Metal such as आयरन maiden followed in a similar vein.
Before the end of the decade, heavy metal fans became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक फ़ोर्स साथ समूह जैसे Mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles : thrash मेटल broke into the मुख्यधारा साथ bands ऐसे as मेटालिका, मेगाडेथ, slayer, और एंथ्रेक्स, जबकि other styles of the most extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu metal, which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore, which blends extreme मेटल साथ हार्डकोर पंक, have further विस्तारित the परिभाषा of the genre.
the far-right ( भी ज्ञात as the चरम right ) refers to the highest degree of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society, and supports supremacy of certain individuals or समूह deemed to be innately श्रेष्ठ or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
the दूर सही 's वकालत of supremacism is आधारित on कया इसके adherents perceive as स्वाभाविक characteristics of people that can not be changed.
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours, such as आलस्य or decadence, as the प्राथमिक स्त्रोत of social inequalities.
The centre right—unlike the दूर right—claims कि लोगों can समाप्त their behavioural inferiority through changing their habits and choices.
The original far right, which emerged in फ़्रांस बाद the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, refused to accept the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र और समर्थित a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy.
The far right is commonly संबद्ध साथ व्यक्तियों or समूह जो थाम चरम राष्ट्रवादी, xenophobic, racist, religious fundamentalist or reactionary views.
The most extreme-right movements have pursued दमन और नरसंहार विरूद्ध समूह of लोगों on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ), in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury, थी an अंग्रेज़ी पारस, बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज लिये उसके कार्य on राजनैतिक philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan स्थापित the न्यास लिये सबसे of पश्चिमी political philosophy from the perspective of social contract theory.
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view कि सब legitimate राजनैतिक शक्ति जरूर be `` प्रतिनिधि '' और आधारित on the सहमति of the लोगों ; और a उदार interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He was one of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक political philosophy.
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the same शारीरिक कानून as अन्य पदार्थ और गति, remains influential ; and his account of human nature as self-interested cooperation, and of political communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other fields, सहित इतिहास, भूगोल, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify, assess, और कंट्रोल the भाव of oneself, of अन्य, और of groups.
It can be divided into क्षमता EI and trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence, whereas trait ei is प्रायः measured using self-report questionnaires और रै stronger संबंध with personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether ei is a रियल प्रज्ञा और whether it रै वृद्धिशील validity over IQ and the Big Five personality traits.
Heredity is the passing of traits to offspring इससे इसके अभिभावक or पूर्वज.
This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the विशेषताएँ of its parent cell or organism.
Through heredity, विसंगतियाँ exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve.
The study of आनुवंशिकता in जीवविज्ञान is पुकारा आनुवंशिकी, which includes the field of epigenetics.
For United States individual income tax, adjusted gross income ( agi ) is कुल सकल आय minus specific reductions.
Taxable income is adjusted gross आय ऋण भत्तों for personal exemptions and itemized deductions.
For most individual tax purposes, AGI is more प्रासंगिक than सकल आय.
Gross income is sales price of goods or प्रॉपर्टी, ऋण cost of the property sold, plus other income.
It includes wages, interest, dividends, business income, rental income, and all अन्य प्रकार of income.
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a कारोबार or rental कार्यकलाप और 21 अन्य विशिष्ट वस्तुएं.
Several deductions ( e.g. medical खर्च और विविध itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI.
Certain phase outs, सहित those of निम्नतर कर दरों and itemized deductions, are based on levels of AGI.
Many states base state आय कर on AGI with certain deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the तीसरा सिंगल इससे silversun Pickups ' debut album Carnavas.
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David लेटरमैन, the tonight दिखाएँ साथ jay लीनो, बाद साथ jools हॉलैंड, और पिछला कॉल with Carson Daly.
The song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 and Guitar नायिका : संसार दौरे.
An alternate version of the सोंग, साथ a लंबाई of 7:27, थी निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter version was played on FM and other XM channels.
This version was प्रदर्शित on उनके डेमो cd ( जिससे प्रदर्शित early versions of four tracks ).
A telephone prefix is the पहला नियत of अंक of a टेलीफोन क्रमांक ; in the उत्तर अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना countries ( country code 1 ), it is the first three digits of a seven-digit phone number.
In other countries दोनो the उपसर्ग और the क्रमांक may have different lengths.
It shows which एक्सचेंज the बाकी संख्याएँ refer to.
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( required for international काल्स तभी ), क्षेत्रफल कोड ( जरूरी लिये काल्स between टेलीफोन areas ), prefix, and subscriber number.
Some places restrict certain prefixes to fax numbers or cell फोन तभी ; in अन्य स्थान ऐसे समर्पित prefixes are not used.
As telephone प्रौद्योगिकी उन्नत, the precise significance of the उपसर्ग became धुंधला in अनेक स्थान ; 485 in London, UK, was once the GULliver exchange, but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( BP, pronounced, ; originally बेची as glucophage ) is an मौखिक antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the उपचार of प्रकार 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function.
Its use in गर्भकालीन मधुमेह has been limited by safety concerns.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज उत्पादन by the liver.
Metformin is the तभी antidiabetic ड्रग कि रै been conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride स्तर, और is नहीं associated with weight gain.
, metformin is एक of तभी दो मौखिक antidiabetics in the संसार स्वास्थ्य Organization Model List of Essential Medicines ( the other being glibenclamide ).
When prescribed appropriately, metformin कल्याणकारी few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is जठरांत्र upset ) and is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the रक्त ) can be a गंभीर चिंता in overdose और जब it is विहित to people with contraindications, but otherwise, there is no significant risk.
First synthesized and found to reduce रक्त शुगर in the 1920s, metformin थी forgotten लिये the अगला दो दशकों as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce blood sugar levels in people, and in 1957, French चिकित्सक जां sterne प्रकाशित the पहला नैदानिक विचारण of metformin as a उपचार लिये मधुमेह.
It was introduced to the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1958, कनाडा in 1972, और the United States in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone, more than 48 लाख prescriptions यहूद भर in 2010 लिये इसके जेनेरिक formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National मेमोरियल is a मूर्तिकला carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near Keystone, South Dakota, in the United States.
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son, Lincoln Borglum, माउंट rushmore सुविधाएँ sculptures of the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.
The संपूर्ण मेमोरियल कवर and is above sea level.
The tallest पहाड़ in the प्रदेश is Harney Peak ( ).
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with conceiving the idea of नक्काशी the likenesses of प्रसिद्ध लोगों into the ब्लैक पहाड़ियाँ प्रदेश of दक्षिण डकोटा in order to promote tourism in the region.
रॉबिन्सन 's आरंभिक विचार थी to sculpt the needles ; however, gutzon borglum अस्वीकृत the needles साईट क्युकी of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the माउंट rushmore स्थान, जिससे भी रै the advantage of facing southeast for maximum sun exposure.
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark, Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the मूर्तिकला चाहिए have a अधिक नेशनल फ़ोकस, और chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
बाद securing संघीय funding, निर्माण on the memorial began in 1927, and the presidents ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939.
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941, उसके बेटे lincoln borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for each president to be depicted from head to कमर, कमी of funding मजबूर निर्माण to समाप्त in लेट अक्तूबर 1941.
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the मेमोरियल in 1933, जबकि it थी स्टिल अंतर्गत निर्माण, and has managed the memorial to the present day.
It attracts nearly तीन लाख people annually.
Charvet dress shirt from the 1930s, norsk folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front कमीज़, or button-up कमीज़ is a परिधान साथ a कॉलर, a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem, and sleeves with cuffs.
शर्ट हैं predominantly used by men, since women usually wear blouses.
The front खोलने is fastened using buttons or studs, and the cuffs close with buttons or cuff links.
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth, और हैं प्रायः accompanied by a jacket and tie, for example with a suit or formalwear, but shirts are also worn more casually.
In British English, dress shirt means specifically the more formal संध्या परिधान worn साथ black- or white- टाई, भी discussed below.
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable छल्लों संलग्न साथ कॉलर studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to apply to all shirts ( साथ or बगैर buttoned bas छल्लों ), होने प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North America, it is celebrated on the बुधवार of the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is मनाये on the तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the first Friday in May
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ धमाकेदार
Blast भट्टी
चट्टान धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) थी the अग्रणी चित्रकार of the शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक स्टाइल, हालांकि he खर्च most of his working life in Rome.
His work is characterized by स्पष्टता, लॉजिक, और अनुक्रम, and favors line over color.
जबतक the 20th सदी he remained a प्रमुख प्रेरणा लिये ऐसे classically oriented artists as Jacques-Louis David, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne.
he worked in रोम लिये a वृत्त of अग्रणी collectors वहीँ और elsewhere, मगर for a short period when Cardinal Richelieu ordered him back to France to serve as First Painter to the King.
Most of उसके works हैं इतिहास paintings of धार्मिक or पौराणिक subjects that very often have a large landscape element.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954Stambler, इरविन, और grelun landon ( 2000 ). - देश म्यूज़िक : the ज्ञानकोष. - नई यॉर्क : st. मार्टिन 's दबायें. - p.533. - isbn 978-0-312-26487-1.—carlin, रिचर्ड ( 2003 ). - देश म्यूज़िक : a biographical शब्दकोष. - नई यॉर्क : routledge - p.427. - isbn 978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin, कोलिन ( 1995 ). - the गिनीज ज्ञानकोष of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक. - नई यॉर्क : स्टॉकटन दबायें - P.4462. - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton, Scott ( 2003 ). - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians. - New York : Pocket Books. - p.395. - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks, Jack. - `` Singer Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs, Love in Home Town ''. - The Kentucky Post. - September 25, 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 ''. - Lexington Herald-Leader. - May 10, 1989.——Hurst, Jack. - `` Whitley 's Last Days ''. - Chicago Tribune. - May 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley ''. - United Press International. - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream देश म्यूज़िक lasted इससे 1984 जबतक उसके मौत in 1989, but he continues to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts, including five लगातार क्रमांक ones : `` do n't बंद अपना आँखें ``, `` जब तुम कह nothing at All ``, `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain ``, `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
Statute of Grand duchy of लिथुआनिया, लिखा in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a विधान प्राधिकार कि governs a state, city, or county.
Typically, statutes command or prohibit कुछ, or declare policy.
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative bodies इससे मामला विधि, decided by न्यायालयों, and regulations issued by government agencies.
statutes हैं sometimes referred to as legislation or `` black letter law. ''
As a source of law, statutes are considered primary authority ( as opposed to द्वितीयक प्राधिकार ).
Ideally all statutes must be in सामंजस्य साथ the आधारभूत law of the land ( constitutional ).
This word is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the common law.
Statutes acquire उनके फ़ोर्स इससे the समय of उनके ड्योढ़ी, however unless otherwise provided.
Statutes are of अनेक kinds ; namely, Public or private.
Declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A temporary statute is एक जिससे is सीमित in इसके अवधि at the time of its enactment.
It continues in force until the time of इसके limitation रै समाप्त, unless sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of जिससे वहीँ is no सीमित समय, हालांकि it may नहीं be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another जिससे is अस्थाई तभी, the पूर्व होगा भी be अस्थाई और निर्भर upon the existence of the latter.
पहले a statute becomes विधि in कुछ देशों, it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the government, and finally published as part of a code.
In many countries, statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications पुकारा कोड, ऐसे as the United States Code.
In many nations statutory law is विशिष्ट इससे और अधीनस्थ to constitutional law.
The बाह्य iliac धमनियों हैं दो प्रमुख धमनियों जिससे bifurcate बंद the आम iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
They proceed anterior and अवर साथ the medial किनारा of the psoas major muscles.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the वंक्षण स्नायु परिचय एक तीसरा laterally from the insertion point of the inguinal ligament on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण.
Steam is a digital distribution, डिजिटल अधिकारों प्रबन्धन, एकाधिक and communications platform developed by Valve Corporation.
It is used to वितरित खेल और सम्बन्धित मीडिया ऑनलाइन, इससे छोटी स्वतंत्र डेवलपर to larger software houses ; in October 2012, Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software.
Steam provides the user साथ संस्थापना और स्वचालित प्रबन्धन of तन्त्र आरपार अनेक कंप्यूटर, community features such as friends lists and groups, cloud saving, and in-game voice and chat functionality.
The software provides a freely available application programming interface, Steamworks, that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions भीतर उनके तन्त्र उत्पाद, सहित नक़ल सुरक्षा, नेटवर्किंग और matchmaking, in-game achievements and micro-transactions, and support for user-created content through Steam Workshop.
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows, the client has expanded to include OS X and Linux versions, and clients with सीमित कार्यक्षमता on the प्लेस्टेशन 3 कंसोल और लिये दोनो आईओएस and Android mobile devices.
In जोड to होने a सेंट्रल हब लिये गेमिंग तन्त्र, वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण of भाप साथ altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software, including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 games available through Steam, and 54 लाख क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता खाते.
As of January 2013, भाप रै देखी over 6.6 million concurrent players.
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल वितरण market for video games.
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank and rod from the Walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive.
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an American comedian, actor, singer, फिल्मी निर्माता, screenwriter और फिल्मी निदेशक.
He is known for his slapstick ह्यूमर in film, television, stage and radio.
he थी originally युग्म up साथ Dean Martin in 1946, forming the famed comedy team of Martin and Lewis.
In addition to the duo 's लोकप्रिय nightclub कार्य, वे starred in a successful series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures.
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons और स्थिति as नेशनल अध्यक्ष लिये the muscular Dystrophy Association ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards for आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ इससे the अमरीकी कॉमेडी पुरस्कार, लॉस एंजिल्स Film Critics Association, and Venice Film Festival, and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2005, he प्राप्त the राज्यपालों पुरस्कार of the अकादमी of टेलीविज़न कला & Sciences Board of Governors, which is the highest Emmy Award presented.
On February 22, 2009, the अकादमी of गति चित्र कला and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through जर्मनी और आखिरकार बहती into the उत्तर समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं longest नदी in यूरोपीय, at about, with an average discharge of more than.
The Rhine and the डेन्यूब formed सबसे of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the Roman Empire and, since those days, the Rhine has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has भी परोसा as a रक्षात्मक विशेषता and has been the basis for regional and international borders.
The many castles और प्रागैतिहासिक fortifications along the Rhine testify to its importance as a waterway.
River traffic could be stopped at these locations, usually for the purpose of collecting tolls, by the राज्य कि नियंत्रित कि portion of the river.
Sri ( सिंहली )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री, IAST ; Śrī ), also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin, used in the Indian subcontinent as polite form of address समतुल्य to the अंग्रेज़ी `` mr. '' in लिखा और बोला भाषा, or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the International Space स्टेशन needs in-depth समझना of संरचनात्मक Analysis.
Civil engineering is a professional engineering अनुशासन कि सौदे साथ the डिज़ाइन, निर्माण, और मेंटेनेंस of the physical and naturally built environment, including works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, and buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering, and it was पारिभाषित to फर्क non-military अभियान्त्रिकी इससे सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, geodesy, कंट्रोल अभियान्त्रिकी, संरचनात्मक अभियान्त्रिकी, biomechanics, nanotechnology, परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी, धरती science, atmospheric sciences, forensic engineering, municipal or urban engineering, water resources engineering, materials engineering, coastal engineering, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the public sector from municipal through to national governments, and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies.
कैथरीन dunham in Tropical Revue
Katherine dunham in स्टुडियो
Katherine Dunham in तीव्र पुनर्विलोकन Tropical Review, Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine dunham wearing dance costume
Katherine dunham in cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( जून 22, 1909 – may 21, 2006 ) was an American dancer, choreographer, author, educator, and social activist.
Dunham had one of the most कामयाब नृत्य करियर in अमरीकी और यूरोपीय theater of the 20th century, and directed her own dance company for many years.
She has been called the `` matriarch और queen mother of black dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin America and was widely लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ the वॉशिंगटन पोस्ट पुकारा उसके `` नर्तकी कैथरीन the ग्रेट ''.
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company, the only self-supported अमरीकी ब्लैक नृत्य troupe at कि समय, और over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances.
Dunham was an innovator in african-american आधुनिक नृत्य as खूब as a नेता in the फ़ील्ड of नृत्य anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses, commonly पुकारा peat मॉस due to its prevalence in wet habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can store water, since both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside उनके कोशिकाएं ; पौधे may थाम इससे 16-26 टाइम्स as much जल as उनके शुष्क वज़न depending on the species.
The empty cells help retain जल in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can धीरे स्प्रेड into drier शर्तें, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland पौधे, सहित sedges और ericaceous shrubs, as खूब as orchids and carnivorous plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic यौगिकों अंतःस्थापित in the मॉस 's cell walls.
In addition, bogs, like all wetlands, develop anaerobic soil conditions, which produces slower anaerobic क्षय बल्कि than एरोबिक सूक्ष्मजैविक कार्रवाई.
Peat moss can भी acidify इसके परिवेश by लेने up cations, such as calcium and magnesium, and releasing hydrogen ions.
Under the सही शर्तें, peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters.
Different species of Sphagnum have different tolerance limits for flooding and pH, so कोई एक peatland may have a क्रमांक of अलग Sphagnum species.
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem, with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles प्रायः consisting of दो or तीन spreading शाखाओं और दो to चार फांसी शाखाओं.
The top of the plant, or capitulum, रै कॉम्पैक्ट क्लस्टर of young branches.
Along the stem are बिखरे पत्ते of विभिन्न आकार, named stem leaves ; the shape varies according to species.
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small, ग्रीन, जीना कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose कोशिकाएं ), और large, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
The latter have the large water-holding क्षमता.
The earliest version of the संजाल कार्ड, जारी हस्तचालित rather than through an APTIS machine.
The first APTIS version of the संजाल कार्ड.
This थी प्रयुक्त इससे the प्रारंभ of the aptis era in 1986/1987 जबतक खूब into the 1990s, as स्टॉक्स had to be used up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare condition in 2002 resulted in a नाबालिग बदलें : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
This version is still in उपयोग as of 2007.
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल, upon the सृष्टि of उनके संजाल southeast क्षेत्रफल around London, England.
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by रेल by offering छूट लिये वयस्कों और accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares.
The range of discounts available, and the price of the card, have varied चूंकि कि समय, लकिन the कार्ड रै always been valid for a year 's unlimited use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent, by completing an application form - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक पहचान or अन्य दस्तावेज़ीकरण is needed to ख़रीदे or उपयोग the card.
It is one of a number of concessionary fare schemes उपलब्धियाँ on the अंग्रेजों railway system.
The United Nations ( UN ; French : Organisation des राष्ट्र unies, onu ) is the संसार 's largest, foremost, and most prominent international organization.
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social प्रगति, इंसान अधिकारों, सिविल अधिकारों, सिविल लिबर्टीज, political freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop wars between देशों, और to provide a मंच for dialogue.
It contains multiple subsidiary संगठन to carry आउट इसके missions.
At its founding, the UN था 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011, there are 193.
From its offices around the world, the UN and its specialized agencies decide on सत्य और प्रशासनिक मुद्दे in नियमित बैठक held throughout the year.
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social परिषद ( लिये assisting in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक और सोशल सहयोग और विकास ) ; the सचिवालय ( लिये providing अध्ययन, सूचना, और सुविधाएं needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent UN System agencies include the World Health Organization ( जो ), the संसार खाना कार्यक्रम ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of secretary-general जिससे रै महरूम आयोजित by बैन ki-moon of दक्षिण कोरियाई since 2007.
The United Nations Headquarters resides in international territory in नई यॉर्क नगर, साथ further प्रमुख offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary योगदान इससे इसके सदस्य राज्य, और रै छह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अरबी, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.
South Beach, भी nicknamed sobe, is a पड़ोस in the नगर of मियामी Beach, Florida, United States, located due east of Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean.
The area encompasses all of the barrier आइलैंड्स of मियामी बीच दक्षिण of भारतीय Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, thanks to the development efforts of Carl G. फिशर, the lummus भाइयो, और जॉन S. कॉलिन्स, the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has गए through numerous कृत्रिम और प्राकृतिक परिवर्तन over the सालो, including a booming regional economy, increased tourism, and the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
As of 2010, about 39,186 निवासियों सजीव in दक्षिण बीच.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard निक्सन, जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक Party nominated John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election after serving the अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving उसे a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज, the closest since 1916.
This was the पहला चुनाव in जिससे सब पचास of the current United States participated.
A number of factors बताइये क्यों the चुनाव थी so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican, and he had the लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the नई मत Nixon gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's emphasis on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न, and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign संगठन to जीत the नामांकन, सुरक्षित समर्थन, और, साथ the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president, a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार, by बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
A पोस्टर लिये a c. 1884 अमरीकी production of Macbeth, starring Thomas W. Keene.
चित्रित, काउंटर clockwise इससे top-left, हैं : मैकबेथ और banquo meet the witches ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a खेल लिखा by विलियम शेक्सपियर.
It is considered one of his darkest और सबसे शक्तिशाली tragedies.
Set in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political effects produced when its protagonist, the स्कॉटिश रब मैकबेथ, chooses दुष्ट as the रास्ता to fulfill उसके महत्वाकांक्षा लिये power.
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent साथ a शासनकाल of murderous आतंक to रहो in power, eventually plunging the country into civil war.
In the end, he loses सबकुछ कि देता meaning and purpose to his life before losing his life itself.
The play is believed to have महरूम लिखा between 1603 और 1607, and is most commonly dated 1606.
The earliest account of a performance of what was संभवतः शेक्सपियर 's खेल is अप्रैल 1611, when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
It was first published in the folio of 1623, possibly from a prompt book.
It was most संभावित लिखा दौरान the शासनकाल of जेम्स i, जो था महरूम James VI of Scotland before he succeeded to the English throne in 1603.
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company, and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign, मैकबेथ सबसे clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign.
मैकबेथ is shakespeare’s shortest त्रासदी, और tells the स्टोरी of a वीर Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland.
खपत by महत्वाकांक्षा और spurred to कार्रवाई by उसके बीवी, Macbeth murders King Duncan and takes the throne for himself.
His reign is racked साथ guilt और paranoia, और he जल्द becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes मैकबेथ और महिला मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance, madness, and death.
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland, Macduff, and डंकन in holinshed 's क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1587 ), a इतिहास of इंग्लैण्ड, स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड परिचित to शेक्सपियर और उसके contemporaries, although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage world of theatre, some believe that the play is शापित, और होगा नहीं जिक्र इसके शीर्षक aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of many centuries, the play has attracted some of the most renowned अभिनेताओं to the भूमिकाएँ of मैकबेथ और महिला Macbeth.
It has been adapted to film, television, ओपेरा, novels, कॉमिक किताबे, और other media.
The Milton Hershey School is a private परोपकारी ( pre-k through 12 ) boarding school in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School, the संस्था थी संस्थापित और वित्तपोषित by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति Milton Snavely Hershey and his wife, Catherine Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally established for impoverished, healthy, Caucasian, male orphans, while आज it serves विद्यार्थी of विभिन्न पृष्ठभूमि.
The Milton Hershey School Trust, which funds the school, owns controlling ब्याज in the hershey कम्पनी and owns the Hershey Entertainment and Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six billion dollars in assets, the Milton Hershey School is one of the wealthiest स्कूलों in the world.
The स्कूल is overseen by a Board of Managers.
the स्कूल फिलहाल serves 1,818 students, and plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A member of CORE : Coalition for Residential Education, it is the largest आवासीय शिक्षा program in the US.
Epub may refer to:
EPUB, a free और खोलें e-book standard
इलेक्ट्रॉनिक आलेख, आलेख in scholarly journals or magazines that can be accessed via electronic transmission
the नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम ( सीएसए ) थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal u.S. ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act भी परोसा as the नेशनल implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created पाँच schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये गाली ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Second-language अधिग्रहण or second-language सीखना is the प्रक्रम by which people learn a second language.
Second-language अधिग्रहण ( प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) भी refers to the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process.
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is named second-language अधिग्रहण, it can भी चरितार्थ the सीखना of तीसरा, चौथी, or subsequent languages.
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it करता नहीं refer to practices in language teaching.
The academic discipline of second-language अधिग्रहण is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics.
It is broad-based और अपेक्षाकृत नई.
As well as the various branches of linguistics, second-language acquisition is also closely सम्बन्धित to psychology, cognitive psychology, and education.
To separate the academic discipline from the सीखना प्रक्रम itself, the शर्तें second-language अधिग्रहण शोध, second-language studies, and second-language acquisition studies are also used.
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary फ़ील्ड, और क्युकी of इस it is मुश्किल to identify a precise starting date.
However, it does appear to have developed a great सौदे चूंकि the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally प्रयुक्त to emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of the सीखना प्रक्रम, but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous.
Second-language acquisition can चरितार्थ विरासत भाषा सीखना, लकिन it does not usually incorporate bilingualism.
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as होने the समाप्त परिणाम of सीखना a भाषा, नहीं the process itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency.
Writers in फ़ील्ड ऐसे as शिक्षा और मनोविज्ञान, however, often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign भाषा ; बल्कि, the सीखना of दूसरी भाषाएं और the सीखना of विदेशी भाषाएं involve the वही आधारभूत प्रक्रियाओं in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly कैसा भाषा is सीखे, and many issues are still unresolved.
There are अनेक theories of second-language अधिग्रहण, but none are accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers.
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the फ़ील्ड of second-language acquisition, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future.
Forbes list of billionaires is an annual ranking of the world 's wealthiest people, compiled and प्रकाशित by फोर्ब्स, an अमरीकी नेशनल business magazine.
The total net लायक of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत on the सूची is अनुमानित, in United States dollars, based on their assets and accounting for debt.
The list only represents प्रत्येक व्यक्ति 's valuation on a सिंगल दिन, due to daily fluctuations among exchange rates and stock valuations.
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law प्रवर्तन एजेंसी कि is भाग of the संयुक्त States Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn members are divided among the Special एजेंटों और the uniformed Division.
जबतक कूच 1, 2003, the सेवा was part of the United States Department of the Treasury.
The U.S. Secret Service has two distinct क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering missions such as रोकथाम और छानबीन of counterfeiting of u.S. currency and U.S. treasury securities, and investigation of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families, such as the President, past राष्ट्रपतियों, वाइस राष्ट्रपतियों, अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार, visiting heads of राज्य, और विदेशी embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
the रहस्य सेवा 's आरंभिक जिम्मेदारी थी to investigate counterfeiting of U.S. currency, which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War.
The agency then evolved into the United राज्य ' पहला घरेलू प्रज्ञा and counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal ब्यूरो of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ), ब्यूरो of दारू, तम्बाकू, firearms और विस्फोटक ( ATF ), Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ), and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` Me and Bobby mcgee '' is a सोंग लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson और Fred Foster, originally performed by Roger Miller.
Others performed the song later, including Kristofferson himself, and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her मौत, बनाना the सोंग the दूसरी posthumous number-one सिंगल in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास बाद `` ( sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned अमरीकी राजनीती after 1932, as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here again `` as उसके अभियान थीम, fdr पराजित लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, fdr 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a renewal of the national spirit.
He worked closely with अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937, but then relapsed into a deep recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत programs when unemployment diminished during World War II.
Most of the regulations on कारोबार यहूद ended परिचय 1975–85, मगर for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance निगम, जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933, और सोशल सुरक्षा, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR gave strong diplomatic and वित्तीय support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, जबकि remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which होता सप्लाई munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease सहायता to the देशों लड़ against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied युद्ध प्रयत्न.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the world 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended, और the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, but also for decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions, big city machines, white ethnics, African Americans और ग्रामीण श्वेत southerners.
He also influenced the later creation of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और bretton वुड्स.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a little left of center. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS, Mara, and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in लॉस एंजिल्स और रै spread to other parts of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America.
The majority of the gang is ethnically composed of Central अमेरिकी और क्रियाशील in शहरी और suburban areas.
In the U.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. महानगर क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स काउंटी, वर्जिनिया, मोंटगोमरी काउंटी, मेरीलैंड, और प्रिंस George 's County, Maryland ; Long Island, New York ; the Boston, Massachusetts area ; Charlotte, North Carolina ; and Houston, Texas.
There is also a presence of MS-13 in टोरंटो, ओंटारियो, Canada.
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the देह और भी प्रायः the फेस, as खूब as the use of their own sign language.
They are notorious for their use of violence and a subcultural moral कोड कि predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
This cruelty of the विशिष्ट सदस्यों of the `` maras '' or `` mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border.
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the ध्यान of the एफबीआई और आव्रजन और कस्टम Enforcement, who have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country.
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on the Fox network in the United States on September 13, 2005.
The show is based on forensic मानवशास्त्र और forensic पुरातत्व, साथ प्रत्येक एपीसोड focusing on an एफबीआई मामला file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ).
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin, T. J. Thyne, Eric millegan, tamara टेलर, जोनाथन Adams, and John Francis Daley.
Created by Hart Hanson, the series is very loosely आधारित on the जीवन और कृतियाँ of उपन्यासकार और forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs, who also produces the show.
Its title अक्षर, temperance Brennan, is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series.
Conversely, Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels आधारित around a fictional ( in the हड्डियों universe ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs.
Bones is a संयुक्त उत्पादन by जोसेफसन entertainment, Far Field Productions and 20th Century Fox Television.
The series has completed airing इसके आठवीं season and has been renewed for a ninth season.
Super Bowl XXV was an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season.
The Giants defeated the Bills by the score of 20–19, जीतना उनके दूसरी कभी सुपर Bowl.
it is the तभी सुपर कटोरी decided by one point.
The game was held at Tampa Stadium in Tampa, फ्लोरिडा, on जनवरी 27, 1991, during the height of the Gulf War.
It was thus निभाई अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The star-spangled ध्वज `` by व्हिटनी ह्यूस्टन दौरान the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle ठोकर यहूद बनाना their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing the regular season with a 13-3 record, and leading the league in total points scored with 428.
In advancing to their second Super Bowl, the Giants also posted a 13-3 regular season रिकार्ड, लकिन साथ a ball-control ठोकर और a रक्षा कि अनुमत a league low 211 points.
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of the uprights, leading to a Giants विजय, और starting a four-game खोने streak in the सुपर कटोरी लिये the Bills.
The Giants set a Super Bowl record holding कब्ज़ा of the बॉल लिये 40 मिनट्स and 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, and made a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव कि consumed a Super Bowl record 9:29 off the clock.
Giants running back Ottis Anderson, जो carried the बॉल 21 टाइम्स लिये 102 गज और एक touchdown, was named Super Bowl MVP.
he थी the पहला awardee to प्राप्त the newly named `` Pete Rozelle Trophy '' ( named for the former commissioner ).
Anderson also अंकित एक रिसेप्शन लिये seven yards.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also known as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an african-american Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक Americans.
Detractors accused him of उपदेश जातिवाद, ब्लैक supremacy, and violence.
He has been called one of the महानतम और सबसे influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he was young, और at तनिक एक of उसके uncles थी lynched.
When he was 13, his माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल, और he थी लगाई in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he went to थाना लिये तोड़कर और प्रवेश.
In prison, Malcolm x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the United States, where he संस्थापित मुस्लिम मस्जिदे, inc. और the संगठन of afro-american एकता.
In February 1965, कम than a साल बाद leaving the स्वदेश of Islam, he was assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially over time.
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated विरह of ब्लैक और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking साथ the स्वदेश of islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it, `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim, he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ, he जारी to emphasize pan-africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
The third season of 90210, an American television series, premiered on Monday September 13, 2010.
The cw officially नवीनीकृत the दिखाएँ for a third season on February 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule, वे घोषित उनके निर्णय to move 90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip Girl.
It premiered on September 13, 2010 and was मिले साथ generally धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ from critics.
The season picks up at the समाप्त of गर्मियाँ और focuses on the विद्यार्थी senior year of high school.
It follows Adrianna 's वृद्धि to कीर्ति, a नई संबंध between चांदी और navid और a उलझन Teddy who decides to reveal to his family and friends he is gay.
It also deals साथ the aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes, Tristan Wilds, annalynne mccord, रयान eggold, जेसिका stroup, माइकल steger, जेसिका Lowndes, Matt Lanter, Gillian Zinser, Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair जारी उसके भूमिका as कार्यपालिका producer for the season.
The ऋतु premiered to 1.96 million viewers and a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic.
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '', hit ऋतु highs in सब कुंजी demos साथ 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It was also the most देखी एपीसोड in over a साल with 2.2 million viewers tuning in.
The season finale aired on may 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 लाख सजीव दर्शक and a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating.
It was released on DVD in the United राज्य on अगस्त 30, 2011.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, और उनके territories और dependencies, और head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और, in कुछ of उसके realms, carries the शीर्षक of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the number of her realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता और कुछ realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned countries, Elizabeth is महारानी of जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया has reigned longer at over 63 years.
एलिज़ाबेथ थी born in लंदन and educated privately at home.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii, इससे जिससे समय वो थी the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, with whom she has four children : चार्ल्स, ऐनी, एंड्रयू, और एडवर्ड.
उसके राजतिलक सेवा took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The महारानी 's अनेक ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in उसके realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have शामिल the births और विवाह of उसके children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the falklands युद्ध, युद्धों साथ इराकी और the युद्ध in अफगानिस्तान.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके पूर्व daughter-in-law, डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और the मौतों of उसके माँ और सिस्टर in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal family and republican sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took place on नवम्बर 2, 2010 साथ साथ अन्य चुनावों to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट in अन्य राज्य as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections.
Republican Marco Rubio, former स्पीकर of the फ्लोरिडा House of Representatives, defeated independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race.
One term Senator Mel मार्टिनेज थी निर्वाचित in a बहुत बंद रेस against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
मार्टिनेज घोषित on दिसम्बर 2, 2008 कि he होता नहीं तलाश re-election to the Senate, and would resign prior to the end of his term.
In August 2009, Governor Charlie Crist घोषित कि he होता नियुक्त उसके पूर्व मुख्य of स्टाफ, George LeMieux, a Republican, to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez.
Governor Crist publicly घोषित he थी कार्यशील for the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he received many Republican endorsements, such as the National Republican Senatorial Committee, Martinez, and the 2008 रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय nominee जॉन मैक्केन.
His support of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives, and candidate Marco Rubio surged.
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop आउट of the रिपब्लिकन प्राथमिक और चलाएं as an independent.
the नेशनल रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी withdrew इसके समर्थन of crist and demanded a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign.
Congressman Kendrick Meek was the first Democrat to घोषित उसके इरादे to चलाएं.
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the Libertarian पार्टी on the बैलट लिये सीनेटर in Florida 's history.
Satellite दृश्य of दोहा
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the बिग पेड़ '' ) is the पूंजी city of the state of Qatar.
Located on the coast of the पारसी Gulf,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008, and is भी एक of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is Qatar 's largest city, with over 60 % of the nation 's population residing in Doha or इसके surrounding उपनगरों, और is भी the economic centre of the country.
Doha also serves as the सीट of सरकारी of क़तर, जिससे is शासित by शेख़ Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani.
Doha is home to the शिक्षा नगर, an क्षेत्रफल devoted to शोध and education.
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level बैठक of the दोहा विकास Round of World Trade Organization negotiations.
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian Games, जिससे थी the largest एशियाई खेल ever held.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab खेल और सबसे of the खेल at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup.
Doha hosted the unfccc जलवायु Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and will host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
The World Petroleum Council held the 20th World पेट्रोलियम सम्मेलन in Doha in December 2011.
paranasal साइनस हैं a समूह of चार युग्म air-filled स्पेसेस कि surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ), above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ), between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ), and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The sinuses are named लिये the फेशियल हड्डियों in जिससे they are located.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for any goal अन्य than the सृष्टि of मान लिये the समाप्त ग्राहक to be अपव्यय, और यूँ a निशाना लिये विलोपन.
Working from the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the ग्राहक जो consumes a उत्पाद or सेवा, `` value '' is defined as any action or process that a customer would be willing to pay for.
Essentially, lean is centered on preserving मान साथ कम work.
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( tps ) ( hence the पद toyotism is भी प्रचलित ) और पहचाना as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s.
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall ग्राहक मान, लकिन वहीँ are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved.
The steady विकास of टोयोटा, इससे a छोटी कम्पनी to the world 's largest automaker, has focused attention on how it has achieved this success.
icarly लोगो
iCarly is an American sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon, which premiered on सितंबर 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` ipity the nevel '', `` idate sam & फ्रेडी '', इत्यादि. as specials, despite उनके होने regular episodes.
Every episode title begins with a lower case i which represents the अंतरजाल, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show was nominated for an Emmy award for बकाया children 's कार्यक्रम in 2009.
The श्रेणी अभिनीत मिरांडा cosgrove as Carly Shay, a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star.
The series ended on November 23, 2012 with the one-hour खास एपीसोड `` iGoodbye ''.
A total of 7 सीज़न और 109 episodes were broadcast.
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 लाख दर्शक, साथ the special episode `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition, tech-savvy फ्रेडी ( नाथन kress ) टेपों it and posts it online without telling them.
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter, the ऑनलाइन दर्शक clamors लिये अधिक और the icarly webcast is born.
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence, Carly, Sam, and Freddie find out that they have also become online celebrities as उनके दिखाएँ – जिससे सुविधाएँ हुनर प्रतियोगिताओं, व्यंजनों, problem-solving, और यादृच्छिक नाचना – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( जेरी trainor ) और produces the दिखाएँ in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment.
Their माँ रै never महरूम देखी or उल्लेखित, लकिन उनके पिता, स्टीवन शे ( David Chisum ), is a U.S. Air Force officer temporarily stationed on a submarine, and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
Westlife were an आयरिश लड़के बैंड जिससे formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012.
Originally signed by Simon cowell और प्रबंधित by लुई वाल्श, the समूह 's फाइनल line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian mcfadden थी a सदस्य इससे 1998 until his departure in 2004.
westlife बेची over 50 लाख records worldwide, a total that included studio albums, singles, video releases, and compilation albums.
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK history ), tying with चट्टान रिचर्ड और रैंकिंग बस पीछे the बीटल्स और एल्विस Presley.
They achieved a total of 26 शीर्ष टेन singles over उनके 14-year career.
By 2010, westlife थी सूचीबद्ध in the गिनीज World Records, as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century.
They also won The Record of the Year ( the only music award based on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स और in 2012, the आधिकारिक चार्ट कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history.
Despite their European and एशियाई कामयाबी, westlife never प्रबंधित to ब्रेक into the U.S. market, achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
In October 2011, Westlife announced their intention to split in 2012, following उनके महानतम हिट्स दौरे और the release of their Greatest Hits album.
The boyband 's final concerts were held on 22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke पार्क Stadium in Dublin.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tickets, बेची आउट in a record-breaking 5 मिनट्स और the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally असंतृप्त hydrocarbons, which include retinol, retinal, retinoic acid and several provitamin A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important.
Vitamin A has multiple functions, it is महत्वपूर्ण लिये विकास और विकास, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing अणु, कि is जरुरी लिये दोनो low-light ( scotopic दृष्टि ) and color vision.
Vitamin A also functions in a very different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid, which is an महत्वपूर्ण hormone-like विकास फ़ैक्टर लिये epithelial और अन्य कोशिकाएं.
In foods of animal origin, the major form of विटामिन a is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, जिससे is परिवर्तित to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine.
The retinol form functions as a storage रूप of the विटामिन, और can be परिवर्तित to और from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated एसिड ( retinoic एसिड ), a metabolite कि can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A, has only partial vitamin A activity, and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle.
Retinoic acid is used for growth and सेल्यूलर differentiation.
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to जिससे an isoprenoid कड़ी is attached, called a retinyl group.
Both structural सुविधाएँ हैं essential for vitamin activity.
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl समूह, जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त in the देह to योगदान to vitamin A levels.
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a single retinyl समूह, जिससे दे उन्हें कुछ vitamin activity.
None of the other carotenes have विटामिन activity.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone समूह और रै विटामिन activity in humans.
Vitamin A can be found in two प्रिंसिपल फ़ॉर्म in भोजन :
रेटिनॉल, the रूप of विटामिन a अवशोषित जब eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance.
चूंकि the pure दारू रूप is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ), but no अन्य carotenoids, फलन as provitamin a in herbivores और सर्वाहारी पशु, जिससे possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase और can नहीं बदलें कोई carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids होने फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन a for these species ).
Selena Marie Gomez ( born July 22, 1992 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर and actress.
She made her डेब्यू as a चाइल्ड अभिनेत्री in Barney & Friends.
In 2007, Gomez आए to prominence as a अभिनीत डाल सदस्य in the टेलीविज़न series Wizards of Waverly Place.
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year, and became the founder and lead singer of the पॉप बैंड सेलिना गोमेज़ & the झाँकी.
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and have शाखित platinum-certified singles `` naturally ``, `` जो says ``, और `` प्रेम तुम जैसे a प्रेम सोंग ``.
After the release of टेलीविज़न films और उनके accompanying soundtracks, गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य फिल्मी debut in Ramona and Beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011.
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012, she focused on her film career, सेवारत as a आवाज़ अभिनेत्री in होटल transylvania और अभिनीत in वसन्त ब्रेकर्स the following साल.
Her debut solo album is tentatively scheduled to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013, और is preceded by इसके सीसे सिंगल `` आइये & मिलेंगी It ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry, गोमेज़ is शामिल in परोपकारी क्रियाएँ through charity work and various social and environmental causes.
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an American r & b और पॉप singer-songwriter, अभिनेत्री, और model.
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive सेंट्रल घाटी.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento महानगर area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन sutter, sr., उसके बेटे जॉन Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew जल्दी धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of Sutter 's Fort, which was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a major distribution point, a commercial and agricultural बीच, और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
Drexel University Sacramento is स्तिथ in Downtown, Sacramento.
विश्वविद्यालयों of the प्रशांत 's mcgeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the University of California, Davis is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस, वेस्ट of the पूंजी.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल, is स्तिथ in the city of Sacramento.
Memorial Day is a United States federal अवकाश जिससे occurs प्रत्येक year on the final Monday of May.
मेमोरियल दिन is a दिन of remembering the men and women who died while serving in the United States Armed Forces.
Formerly known as Decoration Day, it originated बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War.
By the 20th century Memorial Day had been विस्तारित to सम्मान सब अमेरिकी who have died in all wars.
It typically marks the start of the summer vacation ऋतु, जबकि मजदूर दिन marks its end.
Many people visit कब्रिस्तान और memorials, विशेषकर to सम्मान those who have died in military service.
Many volunteers प्लेस an अमरीकी ध्वज on प्रत्येक grave in national cemeteries.
By the early 20th century, Memorial Day was an occasion for more सामान्य expressions of मेमोरी, as लोगों visited the क़ब्रों of their deceased relatives in church cemeteries, whether they had served in the military or not.
It भी became a long वीकेंड increasingly devoted to shopping, family gatherings, fireworks, trips to the beach, and national media events.
Annual Decoration Days for particular कब्रिस्तान हैं आयोजित on a संडे in लेट वसन्त or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in कुछ ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों of the American South, notably in the mountains.
In cases involving a family graveyard जहाँ रिमोट पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद मृतक more recently are buried, this may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles.
People gather on the designated दिन और put पुष्प on क़ब्रों and renew contacts with kinfolk and others.
There often is a religious service and a `` डिनर on the मैदान, '' the परंपरागत पद लिये a potluck meal in which people used to spread the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass.
It is believed कि इस अभ्यास began before the American Civil War and thus may reflect the real origin of the `` memorial day '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving, while Veterans दिन मनाता the सेवा of सब u.S. सैन्य दिग्गजों, living or dead.
Mt. Zion Church state history marker near Philadelphia, मिसिसिपी.
Freedom Summer ( भी ज्ञात as the मिसिसिपी गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट ) थी a अभियान in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to register as many African American voters as possible in Mississippi, which had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools, Freedom Houses, and जातियाँ centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout Mississippi to aid the local black population.
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ), a coalition of the मिसिसिपी शाखाओं of the चार प्रमुख सिविल अधिकारों organizations ( SNCC, CORE, NAACP and SCLC ).
Most of the impetus, नेतृत्व, और financing लिये the Summer Project came from the SNCC.
Robert Parris Moses, sncc फ़ील्ड सचिव and co-director of COFO, directed the summer project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre that originated in समुदायों of primarily the `` गहन दक्षिण `` of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues form, ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and blues, and चट्टान और फेंकें is characterized by विशिष्ट कॉर्ड progressions, of जिससे the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the most common.
The blue notes that, for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or धीरे bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major scale, are also an important part of the sound.
The blues genre is based on the ब्लूज़ रूप लकिन possesses अन्य विशेषताएँ ऐसे as specific lyrics, bass lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into अनेक subgenres ranging इससे देश to शहरी ब्लूज़ that were more or less popular during different periods of the 20th century.
Best known are the डेल्टा, piedmont, Jump, and Chicago blues styles.
World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening of blues म्यूज़िक to a wider दर्शक, विशेषकर श्वेत श्रोता.
In the 1960s and 1970s, a hybrid form पुकारा blues-rock विकसित.
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '', meaning melancholy and sadness ; an early use of the term in इस भाव is मिला in जार्ज colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in african-american म्यूज़िक may be पुरानी, it रै महरूम attested to since 1912, when Hart Wand 's `` Dallas Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues composition.
In lyrics the phrase is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to describe a depressed mood.
A quarter डालर, commonly shortened to क्वार्टर, is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a United States dollar or 25 cents.
the क्वार्टर रै been produced since 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is more common in अन्य भाग of the संसार, originated साथ the अभ्यास of dividing स्पेनी milled डॉलर into आठ कील तराशा खण्ड ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. two wedges, each wedge an आठवीं, यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी रियल, थी a आम nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican अवकाश मनाये throughout Mexico and around the world in other cultures.
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and friends to pray for और याद मित्रों और परिवार सदस्यों who have died.
it is विशेषकर मनाये in मैक्सिको, where it is a national holiday, and all banks are closed.
The celebration takes place on November 1 and 2, in connection with the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' दिन और All Souls ' Day.
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls, marigolds, and the favorite foods and beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts.
They also leave possessions of the deceased.
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous observances डेटिंग वापस सैंकड़ों of सालो और to an एज़टेक पर्व dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In Brazil, Dia de Finados is a public holiday कि अनेक brazilians celebrate by visiting कब्रिस्तान and churches.
In Spain, there are festivals और parades, और, at the समाप्त of the दिन, people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly themed celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures.
ANITA mk viii.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in लेट 1961 as the संसार 's पहला all- इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डेस्कटॉप calculators.
Designed and built by the घंटी पंच co.
in Britain, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer division, वे प्रयुक्त वैक्यूम tubes और cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके लॉजिक circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays.
They were the पहला of a श्रेणी of डेस्कटॉप और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators that the company was to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) was the first President of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution, which replaced the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और स्थापित the स्थिति of President.
Washington was elected President as the unanimous choice of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788, और he served two terms in office.
He oversaw the creation of a strong, well-financed national government that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in यूरोपीय, suppressed विद्रोह, और जीती स्वीकृति among अमेरिकी of all types.
His leadership style established many forms and rituals of government that have been used since, such as using a कैबिनेट प्रणाली और delivering an inaugural पता.
Further, the peaceful transition इससे उसके प्रेसिडेंसी to the प्रेसिडेंसी of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century.
Washington was hailed as `` father of his country `` भी दौरान उसके आजीवन.
Washington was born into the प्रांतीय gentry of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations and slaves.
After both his पिता और पुरानी bhai died जब he was young, Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax, who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier.
Washington quickly became a senior अधिकारी in the औपनिवेशिक शक्तियां दौरान the पहला stages of the French and Indian War.
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, वॉशिंगटन managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City.
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter, he पराजित the अंग्रेजों in दो लड़ाइयों, retook नई जर्सी और लौटी आवेग to the Patriot cause.
Because of his रणनीति, क्रांतिकारी शक्तियां captured दो प्रमुख British armies at Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of his generals, encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army, coordination with the state governors and राज्य मिलिशिया इकाई, संबंध साथ कॉंग्रेस और ध्यान to आपूर्तियाँ, लोजिस्टिक्स, और प्रशिक्षण.
In battle, however, Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by अंग्रेजों सेनापतियों साथ larger armies.
After victory had been finalized in 1783, वॉशिंगटन resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize power, proving his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism.
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation, in 1787 Washington presided over the Constitutional सम्मेलन कि drafted the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
Elected unanimously as the पहला अध्यक्ष of the United States in 1789, he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation.
He supported Alexander हैमिल्टन 's programs to pay off all state and national debt, to implement an effective tax system and to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ).
Washington proclaimed the United States neutral in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय बाद 1793.
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795, despite तीव्र विपक्ष इससे the jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the federalist पार्टी, he supported its programs.
Washington 's Farewell Address was an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning against partisanship, sectionalism, और भागीदारी in विदेशी युद्धों.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his घर, माउंट vernon, और उसके घरेलू जीवन where he managed a variety of enterprises.
He freed all his slaves by उसके फाइनल will.
Washington had a vision of a great and powerful nation that would be निर्मित on रिपब्लिकन लाइनों using संघीय power.
He sought to use the national government to preserve liberty, improve infrastructure, open the western lands, promote कॉमर्स, मिला a स्थाई पूंजी, reduce क्षेत्रीय तनाव and promote a spirit of American nationalism.
At his death, Washington was eulogized as `` first in war, first in peace, and first in the दिल of उसके देशवासियों '' by Henry Lee.
the federalists बना उसे the प्रतीक of उनके पार्टी but for many years, the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument.
As the leader of the पहला कामयाब क्रान्ति विरूद्ध a colonial empire in world history, Washington became an international icon for liberation and nationalism, especially in France and Latin America.
Fiscal Year 2012 u.S. संघीय बिता – Cash or Budget Basis.
Fiscal साल 2012 u.S. संघीय Receipts.
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which अनुशंसा funding स्तर लिये the अगला fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by law to pass a budget annually and to submit the बजट passed by दोनो घरों to the अध्यक्ष लिये signature.
Congressional निर्णय हैं governed by rules and legislation regarding the federal budget process.
Budget committees set spending limits for the हाउस और सीनेट समितियों और लिये appropriations subcommittees, which then approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs.
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as has been the case since 2009 ), a series of Appropriations बिल्स जरूर be passed as `` रोकें गैप '' उपायों.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the President, who may sign it into विधि, or may वीटो it ( as he होता a बजट जब passed by the Congress ).
A vetoed विधेयक is भेजा वापस to कॉंग्रेस, जिससे can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber.
Congress may also combine all or some appropriations बिल्स into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In addition, the president may request and the Congress may pass supplemental appropriations बिल्स or आपात supplemental appropriations bills.
Several सरकारी एजेंसियों provide budget data and analysis.
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ), Congressional Budget Office, the दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन और बजट ( omb ) और the u.S. राजकोष Department.
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a श्रेणी of महत्वपूर्ण financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy चुनाव, जबकि expenditures have विस्तारित लिये युद्धों, बेरोजगारी बीमे and other safety net spending.
In the long-run, expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the अर्थव्यवस्था overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( also, Tok Pisin : Niugini, Dutch : nieuw गिनी, और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the संसार 's दूसरी largest island, after Greenland, covering a land area of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean, it lies geographically to the east of the मलय द्वीपसमूह, साथ जिससे it is sometimes included as part of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago.
Geologically it is a part of the वही tectonic थाली as ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
When world sea levels were low, the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below समुद्र स्तर ), combining साथ lands अभी inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul, also known as Greater Australia.
The two landmasses became separated when the area now known as the Torres Strait flooded बाद the समाप्त of the पिछला glacial period.
Anthropologically, New Guinea is माना भाग of मॅलानिशिया.
Politically, the western half of the island comprises two Indonesian प्रांतों : पापुआ और West Papua.
The eastern half forms the mainland of the देश of पापुआ नई गिनी.
The island has a population of about 7.5 लाख, साथ a बहुत कम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of only 8 inh/km2.
New गिनी is differentiated इससे इसके drier, खुशामद, और कम fertile दक्षिणी बंटवारा, Australia, by its much higher rainfall and its active volcanic geology, with its highest point, Puncak Jaya, reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two जमीन masses share a समान एनिमल fauna, साथ marsupials, including wallabies and possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
Other than bats and some दो दर्जन स्वदेशी कृंतक genera, वहीँ हैं no pre-human स्वदेशी placental mammals.
Pigs, several additional species of rats, and the पूर्वज of the नई गिनी गायन श्वान यहूद introduced साथ human colonization.
The human presence on the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest इंसान migrations आउट of अफ़्रीकी.
Research indicates that the हाइलैंड्स यहूद an जल्दी और स्वतंत्र बीच of कृषि, साथ evidence of irrigation going back at least 10,000 years.
Because of the समय गहराई of इसके inhabitation और इसके अत्यधिक fractured landscape, an unusually high number of languages are spoken on the island, with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most are classified as Papuan भाषाएं, a generally स्वीकृत भौगोलिक पद जिससे a अल्पसंख्यक of authors hold to be a genetic one.
A number of Austronesian languages are spoken on the coast और on offshore islands.
In the 16th century स्पेनी explorers खोजा the island and called it Nueva Guinea.
In recent history पश्चिमी नई गिनी थी शामिल in the Dutch East Indies colony.
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the island as German New Guinea in उनके pre–world युद्ध i प्रयत्न to स्थापित themselves as a औपनिवेशिक शक्ति, whilst the दक्षिण eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion was awarded to ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( जिससे थी already शासी the अंग्रेजों अर्जी, नामित the Territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the island was granted independence from Australia as पापुआ नई गिनी in 1975.
The western half gained independence from the Dutch in 1961, लकिन became भाग of इंडोनेशिया जल्द afterwards in controversial circumstances.
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom seinfeld, और नाम of a fictional New York street gang.
Their चिह्न is क्रासिंग the हैंड्स, साथ एक हाथ साथ all the fingers 'up ' and spread out.
The other hand has all but the thumb और सूचक उंगली up, लिये a कुल of eight ( 8 ).
The gang is named for the 8th President of the United States, Martin Van Buren ( who थी the पहला अध्यक्ष इससे New York ).
This was the 14th एपीसोड लिये the 8th ऋतु.
It aired on फ़रवरी 6, 1997.
bevo sign
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt beverage, or near बियर, brewed in the संयुक्त राज्य by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the समय of निषेध, जब बियर, वाइन और आसुत liquors, were made illegal for thirteen years.
The anheuser-busch कम्पनी प्रारंभ brewing bevo जब alcoholic पेय were prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces.
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919, and Bevo was by far the most popular of the अनेक `` खाद्यान्न पेय '' or `` near beers '' of the time.
At the peak of इसके लोकप्रियता in the जल्दी 1920s, more than five million cases of Bevo were sold annually.
Renard साथ a मग of bevo, depicted in terra cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building, St. Louis
Labels on the बोतलों billed it as `` bevo the Beverage ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage '' and the स्लावी भाषा word for beer `` pivo '', and was pronounced `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the समर्थक of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ), और promotional मग साथ इस अक्षर यहूद manufactured.
In 1930 anheuser-busch निर्मित a श्रेणी of boat-bodied गाड़ियाँ in इसके st. Louis shops called the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for promotion.
Seven are believed to have महरूम निर्मित on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis जबकि one surviving example was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
Billboard advertising Bevo in trenton, नई जर्सी, 1917
A समकालीन विज्ञापन पढ़ा `` कूलिंग और invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the case from your grocer, druggist, or dealer. ''
The paper label on the वापस of the बोतल पढ़ा `` the All-Year-Round Soft Drink.
Appetizing - Healthful - पौष्टिक - ताज़ा.
Milk or water may contain जीवाणु.
bevo never does. ''
Bevo became part of the popular culture of the समय, और is उल्लेखित in विभिन्न लोकप्रिय songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to secondary slang uses of the शब्द ; लिये उदाहरण, in अमरीकी सैन्य slang a young and inexperienced officer was called a `` Bevo ''.
The University of Texas named इसके शुभंकर `` bevo '', a नाम which has stuck to this day.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink, `` तुम ca n't रहो up on bevo '', in his 1917 army revue, Yip Yip Yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer and liquor as well as `` homebrew ``, काटें into bevo 's marketshare.
With sales flattening to 100,000 cases by 1929, anheuser-busch रोका उत्पादन.
The Bevo मिल, st. Louis, in 2008
The Bevo building, with the Renard character prominently displayed at the corners, still operates as a bottling facility at उनके प्रमुख ब्रेवरी in st. Louis, Missouri.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by August anheuser बुच, sr. in 1917.
It was closed in 2009, लकिन it reopened in अक्तूबर 2009 under new owners.
bevo is भी उल्लेखित in the छोटी स्टोरी `` the हत्यारे `` by Ernest Hemingway ; as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the counter दवा प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux, heartburn, और gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ).
Foremilk और hindmilk नमूने of human breast milk
A glass of pasteurized गाय milk
Milk is a श्वेत द्रव उत्पादित by the mammary glands of mammals.
It is the primary source of nutrition लिये यंग स्तनधारियों पहले they are able to digest other types of food.
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk of many diseases in the baby.
It also contains अनेक अन्य nutrients.
As an agricultural product, milk is निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों और प्रयुक्त as food for humans.
Worldwide, dairy farms produced about 730 लाख टन of मिल्क in 2011.
India is the संसार 's largest निर्माता और उपभोक्ता of मिल्क, yet neither exports nor imports milk.
New Zealand, the European Union 's 27 member states, Australia, and the United States are the world 's largest निर्यातक of milk and milk products.
China and Russia are the संसार 's largest importers of milk and milk products.
Throughout the world, there are more than 6 अरब उपभोक्ता of मिल्क और मिल्क उत्पाद.
Over 750 million people सजीव भीतर दुग्ध खेती households.
Milk is a key contributor to improving पोषण और खाना सुरक्षा विशेषकर in developing countries.
Improvements in livestock and dairy technology offer significant promise in reducing गरीबी और कुपोषण in the world.
Motorcycle speedway, प्रायः referred to as स्पीडवे, is a मोटरसाइकिल sport involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and racing takes place on a चपटा ओवल track प्रायः consisting of मैल or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use this surface to slide their machines बगलों, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight sections of the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a प्रकार of स्पीडवे रेसिंग होने practised in the यूएसए पहले the पहला संसार युद्ध और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the late 1910s and early 1920s.
There are now both domestic and international competitions in a number of countries सहित the स्पीडवे संसार कप whilst the उच्चतम overall स्कोरिंग व्यक्तिगत in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
Speedway is popular in central and northern Europe and to a lesser extent in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और उत्तर अमेरिका.
A variant of track racing, स्पीडवे is administered internationally by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic speedway events are regulated by FIM affiliated नेशनल मोटर खेल federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible लिये intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम and phosphate.
In इंसानो, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although विटामिन d is commonly पुकारा a विटामिन, it is नहीं दरअसल an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर receive it in their diet. )
An सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin D was discovered in an effort to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
additionally, जैसे अन्य यौगिकों पुकारा vitamins, in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake इससे the आहार, और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the मेंटेनेंस of adequate serum concentrations.
The प्रमाण indicates कि the संश्लेषण of विटामिन d इससे सूर्य एक्सपोज़र works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप कि रोकता toxicity लकिन, क्युकी of अनिश्चितता about the cancer risk from sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is from their diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि is measured in सीरम to determine a व्यक्ति 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, regulating the concentration of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the स्वस्थ विकास और remodeling of अस्थि.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the अप्रसार, differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of benefit is for अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in mortality in elderly women.
the duramax is a सामान्य मोटर्स diesel engine family for light- and medium duty trucks, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX, a joint venture between gm और isuzu in Moraine, Ohio.
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks और रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि तब in pickups, वैन, and medium-duty trucks.
In 2006, production at moraine थी reportedly सीमित to लगभग 200,000 engines per year.
On May 9, 2007, DMAX announced the उत्पादन of the 1,000,000th duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility.
duramax LML
balto.
is also a traditional written abbreviation लिये बाल्टीमोर, मेरीलैंड.
Statue of Balto in Central Park ( नई यॉर्क नगर )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14, 1933 ) was a Siberian हस्की sled श्वान जो led उसके टोली on the फाइनल लेग of the 1925 सीरम चलाएं to nome, in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage, Alaska, to Nenana, Alaska, by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease.
The run is commemorated by the सालाना iditarod ट्रेल sled Dog Race.
Balto was named after the Sami एक्सप्लोरर सैमुएल balto.
balto died at the age of 14.
Professor Stephen Hawking, known for being a theoretical physicist, has appeared in अनेक works of लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
the निसान उच्चिष्ट is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird, and was spun into इसके अपना लकीर in 1981, having महरूम बना लगातार चूंकि तब.
The `` Maxima '' नाम थी लागू gradually, beginning in 1981.
सबसे pre-2004 maximas यहूद निर्मित in oppama, Japan, until the current North American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
the `` उच्चिष्ट '' रै भी been applied to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets.
propolis as hive sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey bees collect from tree कलियों, sap बहती, or अन्य वनस्पति स्त्रोत.
It is used as a sealant लिये अनावश्यक खोलें स्पेसेस in the hive.
Propolis is used for small gaps ( approximately or less ), while larger spaces are प्रायः भर साथ beeswax.
Its color varies depending on its botanical source, the most आम होने अंधेरा भूरा.
Propolis is sticky at और ऊपर रूम तापमान,.
at निम्नतर temperatures, it becomes hard and very brittle.
स्टीवन टायलर ( born स्टीवन विक्टर tallarico ; कूच 26, 1948 ) is an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist, best known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based rock band Aerosmith, in which he also plays the harmonica, and occasional piano and percussion.
He is known as the `` Demon of Screamin ' '' due to his high चिल्लाती और उसके चौड़ी गायन range.
He is also known for उसके on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy प्रदर्शन, he प्रायः पोशाक in उज्जवल, रंगीन outfits with his trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith, which released such milestone मुश्किल चट्टान एल्बम as खिलौने in the अटारी और रॉक्स.
In the late 1970s and जल्दी 1980s, टायलर था a भारी ड्रग and alcohol addiction, and the band 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 years, but had a पतन साथ नुस्खा painkillers in the लेट 2000s, लिये जिससे he successfully received treatment in 2009.
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and जल्दी 1990s साथ the एल्बम स्थाई अवकाश, पंप, और मिलेंगी a पकड़, टायलर became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on several solo endeavors सहित अतिथि दिखावे on अन्य artists ' music, film and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ), authoring a bestselling book, and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
However, he has continued to रिकार्ड म्यूज़िक और perform साथ एरोस्मिथ, बाद अधिक than 43 years in the band.
The band 's latest album, Music इससे another आयाम !
, was released on नवम्बर 6, 2012.
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 महानतम Singers.
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit Parader 's Top 100 मेटल vocalists of सब समय.
In 2001 he was inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति साथ Aerosmith, and he was the presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be recipients of the ascap संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और will also be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
The liver produces यूरिया in the यूरिया साईकिल as a बर्बाद उत्पाद of the digestion of protein.
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया नाइट्रोजन प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
Individual laboratories may have अलग सन्दर्भ ranges, and this is because the procedure may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a former American football coach and college और पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी जो was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 wins and 71 losses are each the सबसे लिये a सिर कोच in टोली history.
The Jews ( आईएसओ 259-3 israeli उच्चारण ), also known as the Jewish people, are a nation and an ethnoreligious group, originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East.
The यहूदी नस्ल, राष्ट्रीयता, और धर्म are strongly interrelated, as Judaism is the traditional faith of the Jewish nation.
Converts to Judaism, whose status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it, have महरूम अवशोषित into the यहूदी लोगों throughout the millennia.
In Jewish tradition, Jewish ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs अब्राहम, Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE.
The modern राज्य of इसराईल थी स्थापित as a यहूदी nation-state, और defines itself as such in its Basic Laws.
Its Law of Return grants the right of citizenship to any Jew who निवेदन it.
Israel is the तभी देश जहाँ यहूदियों हैं a majority of the population.
Jews also enjoyed political स्वायत्तता twice पहले in ancient history.
the पहला of ये अवधि lasted इससे 1350 to 586 bce, और encompassed the अवधि of the Judges, the United Monarchy, and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, ending with the destruction of the First Temple.
The second was the period of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning इससे 140 to 37 bce.
Since the destruction of the First Temple, most Jews have जिया in diaspora.
A अल्पसंख्यक in प्रत्येक देश in जिससे वे सजीव ( except Israel ), they have frequently experienced persecution throughout history, resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The world Jewish population reached a peak of 15 million prior to the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, लकिन छह लाख यहूदियों यहूद मारे in the holocaust.
Since then the population has risen again and, was estimated at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish आंकड़ा बैंको, or कम than 0.2 % of the कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी ( roughly एक in every 514 people ).
According to this report, about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), and 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 लाख ), साथ सबसे of the शेष जीना in यूरोपीय ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those who consider themselves Jews, whether or नहीं वे हैं संबद्ध with a Jewish organization.
The total world यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी, however, is difficult to measure.
In जोड to मुद्दे साथ जनसांख्यिकी methodology, वहीँ हैं halakhic विवादों regarding who is a Jew and secular, political, and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably.
कॉर्पस christi procession.
Oil on canvas by कार्ल एमिल doepler.
Corpus Domini redirects यहाँ.
For other uses see कॉर्पस domini ( बहुविकल्पी )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ), also known as कॉर्पस domini, is a लैटिन रीति liturgical solemnity celebrating the परंपरा और विश्वास in the देह and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist, which was observed on पावन गुरुवार in the somber माहौल of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और रक्त of Christ.
It is also मनाये in कुछ anglican, लूथरन, and Old Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence.
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday or, `` where the Solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of मसीह is नहीं a पावन दिन of दायित्व, it is आबंटित to the संडे बाद the सबसे पावन ट्रिनिटी as इसके उचित day ''.
At the end of Holy Mass, there is often a procession of the धन्य sacrament, generally प्रदर्शित in a monstrance.
The procession is followed by सुनाकर of the धन्य sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each year in Rome, where it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John lateran और makes इसके रास्ता to the basilica of संत मरियम प्रमुख, जहाँ it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood, the levels of which rise in जवाब to सूजन ( i.e. c-reactive प्रोटीन is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and कुछ प्रकार of जीवाणु ) in अनुक्रम to activate the complement system via the C1Q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in जवाब to कारकों released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes ).
It is a सदस्य of the pentraxin family of proteins.
It is not related to c-peptide or प्रोटीन C.
c-reactive प्रोटीन थी the पहला पैटर्न recognition receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by क्रिस्टोफर कोलंबस sailed लिये इण्डिया to खोलें व्यापार लकिन inadvertently खोजा the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale खोजी और colonization जल्द followed.
Seeing that यूरोपीय थी preoccupied साथ अनेक आतंरिक युद्धों और थी धीरे recovering इससे the many deaths that the bubonic plague caused, the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first रिझाने occurred साथ the caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola, Puerto Rico and Cuba, and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America.
In 1497, sailing from the north on behalf of England, John Cabot landed on the North अमरीकी coast, और a साल बाद, कोलंबस 's तीसरा voyage पहुँचे the दक्षिण अमरीकी coast.
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America, on a क्रमांक of caribbean आइलैंड्स, और in South America.
Portugal colonized ब्राज़ील.
Eventually, the entire Western गोलार्ध आए अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of यूरोपीय सरकारें, leading to profound changes to its landscape, population, and plant and animal life.
In the 19th century अलोन over 50 लाख लोगों बाएँ Europe for the Americas.
The post-1492 era is known as the काल of the columbian एक्सचेंज.
Keith Richards ( born 18 दिसम्बर 1943 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार, singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones.
रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका said Richards had created `` rock 's greatest single body of riffs '', ranking him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the Rolling Stones ' सीसे vocalist मिक जैगर हैं सूचीबद्ध among रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his व्यसन to और eventual abstinence इससे heroin.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is found in स्तनधारियों, सरीसृपों, पक्षियों, और अन्य vertebrates.
In mammals, testosterone is primarily स्रावित in the अंडकोष of males और the अंडाशय of महिलाओं, हालांकि छोटी amounts हैं भी secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the प्रिंसिपल male sex hormone and an anabolic steroid.
In men, टेस्टोस्टेरोन plays a कुंजी भूमिका in the विकास of पुरूष reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as promoting secondary sexual characteristics such as increased muscle, bone mass, and the growth of body hair.
In जोड, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य लिये स्वास्थ्य and well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis.
On average, in adult human males, the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the विशेषज्ञता in वयस्क इंसान महिलाओं ' प्लाज्मा, लकिन as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men.
Females also are more संवेदनशील to the hormone.
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is observed in most vertebrates.
Fish make a slightly different form पुकारा 11-ketotestosterone.
Its बंटवारा in कीट is ecdysone.
These ubiquitous steroids सुझाएँ कि sex हार्मोन have an प्राचीन evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` प्राकृतिक '' लकिन अपेक्षाकृत समरूप groupings are evident in a statistical population.
It is often used in विपणन शोध.
In this तकनीक, the कुल जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित into these groups ( or clusters ) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected.
Then the required सूचना is एकत्रित इससे a सरल यादृच्छिक नमूना of the elements within each selected group.
This may be done for every तत्व in ये समूह or a subsample of तत्व may be selected within each of these groups.
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total क्रमांक of साक्षात्कार और लागत given the desired accuracy.
Assuming a fixed sample size, the technique gives more accurate results when most of the विभिन्नता in the जनसांख्यिकी is भीतर the groups, not between them.
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North Carolina, United States, and is a suburb of the nearby cities of greensboro और ऊँची Point.
The population was 3,382 at the 2010 census.
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an actress and model साथ डुअल अमरीकी और israeli नागरिकता.
Her first role was as an orphan लिया in by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई फिल्मी, लकिन मुख्यधारा कामयाबी came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, she enrolled at Harvard University to पढ़ाई मनोविज्ञान जबकि स्टिल working as an actress.
She completed उसके स्नातक 's degree in 2003.
In 2001, पोर्टमैन खोली in नई York City 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting अभिनेत्री और जीती the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for बेहतरीन मादा प्रदर्शन और a शनि पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री for her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ).
She निभाई अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in the ऐतिहासिक dramas गोया 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ).
In May 2008, वो परोसा as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial डेब्यू, संध्या, खोली the 65th Venice International Film Festival 's shorts competition in 2008.
Portman directed a segment of the collective फिल्मी नई यॉर्क, i प्रेम You.
In 2011, Portman won the Academy Award, the Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार, the bafta पुरस्कार, the स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, and the Independent Spirit Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan.
Copper is a chemical element with the symbol cu ( इससे ) और परमाणु क्रमांक 29.
It is a ductile metal with very ऊँची थर्मल और विद्युत चालकता.
Pure तांबे is नरम और malleable ; a freshly उजागर surface has a reddish-orange color.
It is used as a conductor of heat and विद्युत, a building material, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The metal और इसके alloys have महरूम प्रयुक्त for thousands of years.
In the Roman era, copper was प्रधानतया mined on साइप्रस, hence the उत्पत्ति of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of Cyprus ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which often impart blue or ग्रीन रंगों to खनिज ऐसे as azurite और फ़िरोज़ा और have been widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures निर्मित साथ तांबे corrode to give green verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently सुविधाएँ तांबे, both by itself and as part of pigments.
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a trace dietary mineral because it is a key constituent of the respiratory एंजाइम जटिल cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin, जिससे is replaced by the iron-complexed हीमोग्लोबिन in fish and other vertebrates.
The main क्षेत्रों जहाँ तांबे is मिला in vertebrates are liver, muscle and bone.
In sufficient विशेषज्ञता, तांबे यौगिकों हैं poisonous to higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional खेल लीग, or बस प्रमुख लीग, in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा हैं the उच्चतम professional competitions of team sports in the two countries.
Although individual sports such as golf, tennis, and auto racing are also very लोकप्रिय, the पद is प्रायः सीमित to टोली sports.
The term `` प्रमुख लीग '' थी पहला used in 1921 in reference to Major League Baseball ( MLB ), the top level of professional American baseball.
Today, the major northern North America पेशेवर टोली खेल लीग हैं प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ), the National Football League ( NFL ), and the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ), the Canadian Football League ( CFL ), the Arena Football League, प्रमुख लीग lacrosse, the नेशनल lacrosse लीग और the महिलाओं 's नेशनल बास्केट संघ.
The NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL are commonly referred to as the बिग Four.
Each of these is the richest professional club competition in its खेल विश्वव्यापी.
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the संसार, क्युकी the लीग आनंद a significant प्लेस in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in the us and Canada.
The NFL has 32 teams, and the अन्य have 30 each.
The vast majority of major लीग टीमों हैं concentrated in the सबसे populous महानगर areas of the United States.
Baseball, football, hockey, and soccer have had professional leagues for over 100 years ; early leagues such as the नेशनल संघ, ओहियो लीग, और नेशनल हॉकी संघ formed the आधार of the modern MLB, NFL and NHL respectively.
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894, but leagues suffered greatly इससे कमी of स्थिरता और seldom lasted अधिक than a decade.
Soccer 's greatest successes यहूद in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ), the असली उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1968-1984 ), the नेशनल पेशेवर Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and, currently, Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
बास्केट is a अपेक्षाकृत नई विकास ; the एनबीए विकसित इससे the National Basketball League and its splinter group the Basketball Association of America, taking on its current form in 1949.
Every major league averages 15,000 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति per game or higher as of 2011.
Meridian Altitude is an astronomical navigation method of calculating an निरीक्षक 's अक्षांश.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or Earned value project/performance प्रबन्धन ( evpm ) is a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन तकनीक लिये measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner.
Because EVM has the क्षमता to combine माप of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and cost,
in a single integrated system, Earned Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन समस्याएं, जिससे is an important contribution for project management.
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by its use ; and similarly, using the methodology improves दोनो पैमाना परिभाषा as खूब as the विश्लेषण of overall प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन.
More recent research studies have shown that the सिद्धान्त of evm हैं धनात्मक predictors of प्रोजेक्ट success.
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government contracting, in which sector its importance continues to rise ( e.g., recent new DFAR rules ), in part because evm can भी सतह in और सहायता substantiate अनुबंध विवादों.
Colorful वसन्त गार्डन flowers
Spring is एक of the चार conventional शीतोष्ण seasons, following winter and preceding summer.
There are various technical परिभाषाएं of वसन्त, लकिन लोकल उपयोग of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and customs.
When it is वसन्त in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, it will be autumn in the southern hemisphere.
At the वसन्त विषुव, दिनों हैं बंद to 12 घंटों long with day length increasing as the season progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and also to ideas of rebirth, कायाकल्प, नवीकरण, क़यामत, और regrowth, साथ त्यौहार ऐसे as कार्निवल, Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown थी a उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of Virginia, the first permanent English settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14, 1607 ( o.s., may 24, 1607 n.s. ), it followed अनेक पहले विफल कोशिशें, सहित the Lost Colony of Roanoke.
Jamestown served as the capital of the उपनिवेश लिये 83 सालो, इससे 1616 until 1699.
The settlement was located within the territory of a political entity known as tsenacommacah, the राज्य of the powhatan confederacy, साथ around 14,000 देशी निवासियों, और specifically थी in भाग of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, and they provided crucial प्रावधानों और support लिये the अस्तित्व of the colonists, जो यहूद नहीं agriculturally inclined, although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on, leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the Virginia कम्पनी brought पॉलिश और डच colonists to सहायता improve the settlement.
In 1619, the first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown, though the modern धारणा of गुलामी in the भविष्य संयुक्त States did not begin in Virginia until 1660.
जब the उपनिवेश थी subdivided into the असली eight shires of Virginia in 1634, the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire.
The London Company 's second settlement, बरमूडा, दावा to be the साईट of the oldest town in the English New World, as St. George 's, Bermuda was officially established ( as New London ) in 1612, whereas James Fort, in Virginia, was not to be converted into James towne until 1619, and further did not survive into the present day.
In 1699, the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg, after which Jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a उपनिवेश, मौजूदा आज तभी as an archaeological site.
Today, Jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the ऐतिहासिक Triangle of Colonial Virginia, along with Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the archaeological site on Jamestown Island, is a cooperative effort by Jamestown National ऐतिहासिक साईट ( भाग of औपनिवेशिक नेशनल ऐतिहासिक पार्क ), और संरक्षण Virginia.
The Jamestown Settlement, a जीना इतिहास interpretive साईट, is संचालित by the jamestown yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी writer.
His books A Million Little Pieces ( 2003 ) and My Friend Leonard ( 2005 ), as खूब as उज्जवल चमकदार morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of certain चोटों यहूद अतिरंजित in a लाख छोटी टुकड़े, a अधिकारीगण autobiographical खाता of the लेखक 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & Company, सबसे commonly ज्ञात by इसके नाम जॉन deere, is an अमरीकी निगम आधारित in moline, इलिनोइस, and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world.
In 2012, it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the सौभाग्य 500 Global ranking.
Deere and Company agricultural उत्पाद, बेची अंतर्गत the जॉन deere नाम, शामिल tractors, combine हार्वेस्टर, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, and UTVs.
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment, as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles, ट्रांसमिशन, gearboxes ) प्रयुक्त in heavy equipment.
Additionally, जॉन deere manufactures उपकरण प्रयुक्त in लॉन, grounds, और turf परवाह, ऐसे as walk-behind lawn mowers, zero-turn lawn mowers, lawn tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the core businesses, John Deere also provides financial सेवाएं और अन्य सम्बन्धित क्रियाएँ.
the कम्पनी 's स्लोगन is `` nothing रनों जैसे a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a logo, a word play pun on `` nothing runs like a deer ''.
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing रनों जैसे a deere '' लिये a विपणन अभियान to sell snowmobiles.
The company 's products are भी identifiable by इसके distinctive शेड of ग्रीन पेंट, प्रायः augmented by yellow trim.
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the reverse.
( Hamilton is एक of दो non-presidents प्रदर्शित on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) जो थी not born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In जोड, kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter. )
All $ 10 बिल्स जारी आज हैं Federal Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear.
Approximately 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten डालर बिल्स हैं वितरित by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy सैमुएल ग्रिफ़िथ ( जून 1, 1926 – जुलाई 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television producer, Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer, and writer.
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles, and gained prominence in the अभिनीत भूमिका in निदेशक एलिया कज़न 's फिल्मी a फेस in the भीड ( 1957 ) before he became better known for his television roles, playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin, ( née Raines ; born July 20, 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -आधारd, अमरीकी -born naturalist, लेखक, the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter, their unconventional टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ with its spin-off series, Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries.
She has lived in ऑस्ट्रेलिया चूंकि 1992, when she married Steve Irwin.
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican system, from the harmonia macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve around a अपेक्षाकृत stationary सूर्य at the बीच of the सौर प्रणाली.
The word comes from the Greek ( helios `` सूर्य '' और kentron `` center '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, जिससे लगाई the Earth at the center.
The notion that the Earth घूमती around the सूर्य था महरूम प्रस्तावित as जल्दी as the 3rd सदी bc by aristarchus of samos, लकिन Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that इस is a भ्रामक छाप resulting इससे the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era.
Using अप्रत्यक्ष प्रमाण he argues that a heliocentric view was expounded in Hipparchus 's work on gravity.
It was not until the 16th सदी कि a fully predictive गणितीय मॉडल of a heliocentric प्रणाली थी प्रस्तुत, by the Renaissance mathematician, astronomer, and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following century, Johannes Kepler elaborated upon और विस्तारित इस मॉडल to शामिल अंडाकार orbits, and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of विलियम हर्शेल, फ्रेडरिक bessel, और अन्य, खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास that the sun was not the center of the universe and by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions.
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30, 1979 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
वो is the बेटी of Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar and Sue Jones.
She is भी anoushka शंकर 's half-sister.
In 2002, she launched her solo music career with the release of the commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed एल्बम आइये दूर साथ Me, a fusion of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million copies.
The record earned Jones पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित the Album of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best New Artist.
Her subsequent studio albums, Feels Like Home, released in 2004, Not Too Late, released in 2007, the same साल वो बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in my ब्लूबेरी नाइट्स, and her 2009 release The Fall all gained Platinum status, selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics.
Jones ' fifth स्टुडियो एल्बम, छोटी टूटा दिल, थी released on April 27, 2012.
Jones has जीती नौ ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और थी 60th on बिलबोर्ड magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart.
Throughout her career, Jones has won numerous awards and has sold more than 50 million एल्बम विश्वव्यापी.
Billboard named उसके the शीर्ष जैज़ कलाकार of the 2000–2009 decade.
Not to be उलझन with Dimension of a physical quantity.
For other uses, see Dimension ( बहुविकल्पी ).
From left to right, the वर्गाकार, the घन, और the tesseract.
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional लाइनों, the घन by 2-dimensional areas, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A projection of the घन is दिए चूंकि it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen.
The same applies to the tesseract, which additionally can only be दिखाया as a प्रक्षेप भी in three-dimensional space.
A diagram showing the पहला चार स्थानिक आयाम.
In physics and mathematics, the dimension of a space or object is informally पारिभाषित as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्देशांक needed to बताएँ कोई point within it.
Thus a line has a आयाम of एक क्युकी तभी एक निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( for example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface such as a plane or the सतह of a बेलन or गोला रै a आयाम of दो क्युकी दो निर्देशांक हैं needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( for example, to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ).
The inside of a cube, a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional क्युकी तीन निर्देशांक हैं needed to locate a point within these spaces.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its स्थिति in समय ( आभास as a अदिश आयाम साथ the t-axis ), as खूब as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions, interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट or ढांचा in इसके रवैया और संबंध to other objects and occurrences.
Physical theories that incorporate time, such as सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, हैं कहा to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' सहित क्वांटम फ़ील्ड और स्ट्रिंग theories.
The state-space of क्वांटम यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The concept of dimension is not restricted to शारीरिक वस्तुएँ.
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons, frequently as configuration spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics ; these are abstract spaces, independent of the physical space we live in.
Fontana ( ) is a नगर of 200,762 residents in San Bernardino County, California.
Founded in 1913, it remained essentially rural until World War II, when उद्योगों हेनरी J. कैसर निर्मित a विशाल स्टील मिल in the area.
It is now a regional hub of the trucking उद्योग, साथ अंतरराज्यीय 10 और राज्य रूट 210 transecting the city from east to west, and Interstate 15 passing diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system libraries, a renovated historic theater, a नगरपालिका पार्क, और the स्वचालित क्लबों स्पीडवे on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill.
Fontana also hosts the fontana दिनों हाफ Marathon and 5K run.
This race is the fastest half-marathon कोर्स in the world.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported कि fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012, बनाना it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state.
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium with a retractable छत in आर्लिंगटन, Texas.
It serves as the home of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's Dallas Cowboys.
it replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, which opened in 1971, and served as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season.
It was समाप्त on May 27, 2009.
The stadium seats 85,000, making it the third largest स्टेडियम in the एनएफएल by seating क्षमता.
The maximum capacity of the स्टेडियम, सहित standing room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind सीटे in प्रत्येक समाप्त मण्डल और on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free आंतरिक और the चौथी largest ऊँची definition video screen, which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line.
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल ) ऐसे as कॉन्सर्ट, बास्केट खेल, मुक्केबाज़ी मिलान, कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल and high school football contests, soccer matches, and motocross races.
Canadian historians until the 1980s tended to focus on economic इतिहास, सहित श्रमिक इतिहास.
In part this is क्युकी कनाडा has had far fewer political or military conflicts than other societies.
This was especially true in the first half of the बीसवीं सदी जब आर्थिक इतिहास was overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this period were economic historians, such as हेरोल्ड innis, डोनाल्ड creighton और आर्थर R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe and the United States, लकिन frameworks कि worked खूब elsewhere प्रायः विफल in Canada.
The heavily Marxist influenced economic history that dominates Europe has छोटी प्रासंगिकता to सबसे of कनाडाई history.
A focus on class, urban areas, and उद्योग fails to पता कनाडा 's ग्रामीण और संसाधन आधारित economy.
Similarly, the monetarist स्कूल कि is प्रबल in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border.
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic geography, और लिये अनेक सालो the प्रबल स्कूल of thought has been the staples thesis.
This स्कूल of विचार bases the पढ़ाई of the Canadian economy on the study of natural resources.
This approach has since also become used outside of कनाडा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और in many developing nations.
Before the arrival of Europeans, the First Nations of what would become कनाडा था a विशाल और हर्षोल्लास व्यापार संजाल.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods were often transported हज़ारों of किलोमीटर, ज़्यादातर by कैनो throughout the अनेक नदियाँ and lakes of the region.
The early European history of the Canadian economy is usually studied through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था विकसित through the शोषण of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe.
carbon-14, 14c, or radiocarbon, is a radioactive isotope of carbon with a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of the radiocarbon dating method pioneered by willard लिब्बी और सहयोगियों ( 1949 ) to date archaeological, geological and hydrogeological samples.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin Kamen and Sam Ruben at the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया विकिरण प्रयोगशाला in बर्कली, हालांकि its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934.
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, और carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts, i.e., बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग प्रति खरब ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 सालो.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through बीटा decay.
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक रे कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the माहौल, और it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air nuclear परीक्षण between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool.
The different isotopes of carbon do not differ appreciably in उनके रासायनिक properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique पुकारा कार्बन labeling : carbon-14 अणु can be प्रयुक्त to बदलें nonradioactive कार्बन, in अनुक्रम to ट्रेस chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms from any given organic compound.
बिजली is a अत्यधिक visible form of energy transfer
बिजली हमलों हैं विद्युत discharges on a विशाल scale between the atmosphere and an earth-bound object.
They mostly originate in thunderclouds और terminate on the मैदान, पुकारा बादल to Ground ( CG ) lightning.
however, वे may भी be initiated इससे a very tall grounded object and reach into the clouds.
हालांकि `` a बिजली स्ट्राइक '' is commonly प्रयुक्त to describe सब बिजली, it is बल्कि erroneous and a misnomer, as only about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide are CG, the large bulk of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ), where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere.
The scientific name for the complete process of a single बिजली इवेंट is a और it is a बहुत जटिल, अनेक stepped interaction, which is not completely understood.
Most CG flashes तभी `` स्ट्राइक '' एक शारीरिक location, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the उज्जवल coursing लाइट तुम may देखिए और कॉल a `` स्ट्राइक '', is तभी परिचय 1 इंच in diameter, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of मील.
And the entire flash, lasts only a few fractions of a second, most of जिससे is नहीं दृश्य to human eyes.
थंडर is सदा produced by lightning.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or करीब than it वाकई is, the धरती 's माहौल और हमारी दिमाग 's बोध of the outside world, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
Lightning can not happen in a vacuum devoid of ions, nor can थंडर occur बगैर molecules to vibrate.
Thunder is a physical निरपेक्ष लिये प्रत्येक सिंगल फ्लैश of lightning.
Contrary to popular belief, a lightning strike itself is प्रायः नहीं जिम्मेदार लिये अनेक मौतों or injuries from a single event.
It होता be नामुमकिन दिए the प्राकृतिक tendencies of a फ्लैश, जबतक people or animals were stacked on top of each other, or they were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel.
When बिजली ignites an उपलब्धियाँ ईंधन सोर्स और an विस्फोट occurs, it is the shock wave or fire causing the injuries, not the strike itself.
Ground Currents, also called step potential, of an earth termination is कया truly कल्याणकारी सबसे चोटों or मौत to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous rush of surface charges, induced by the overhead thundercloud itself, race to the strike पाइंट इससे सैंकड़ों to हज़ारों of फीट away during discharge.
इस वर्तमान, caused दौरान प्रत्येक स्ट्रोक, takes the पाथ of least resistance, which may be ion rich human or animal legs, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is best to crouch, साथ फीट बंद साथ, if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm.
Unfortunately, most reports do not draw a distinction between the real cause of injury or death, be it the strike itself, a resulting विस्फोट or आग, or प्रायः जिम्मेदार कदम संभावित.
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the वर्तमान attorney सामान्य of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain and a former member of the rhode द्वीप हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
A couple following उनके विवाह in the manti Utah Temple.
Sealing is an ordinance ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in latter Day Saints temples by a person holding the sealing authority.
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships, making संभावित the अस्तित्व of परिवार संबंध throughout शाश्वत.
LDS शिक्षाओं प्लेस great importance on the specific authority required to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine सिखाती कि इस प्राधिकार, पुकारा the Priesthood, corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in.
Sealings are typically performed as विवाह or as sealing of children to parents.
They were performed prior to the death of जोसेफ स्मिथ, jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक of the latter Day Saint movement ), and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, such as the Community of Christ, दृश्य sealing as an centuries of स्मिथ 's practice of plural marriage, some do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` दो हज़ारों '', थी a दशक that began on January 1, 2000, and ended on December 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated after the early 1990s fall of साम्यवादी, जारी to be a force in the 2000s.
The growth of the अंतरजाल थी एक of the प्रधान योगदानकर्ता to वैश्वीकरण दौरान the दशक, बनाना it संभावित लिये लोगों to interact साथ अन्य लोगों, एक्स्प्रेस विचार, introduce अन्य to अलग cultures and backgrounds, use goods and services, sell and buy online, research and learn about things, along with experiencing the world without having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies that emerged or were redefined पहले होता subsequently in इस दशक लाभ many countries, in particular China and India.
However, in other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing struggles साथ आधुनिकता, सबसे notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups.
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States, United Kingdom, Spain, Canada and other nations invading अफगानिस्तान, as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist उपायों at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror.
The European Union saw further integration and expansion throughout much of Europe.
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences, raised demand for घटाते उर्जा संसाधन, और थी स्टिल दिखाया to be vulnerable as demonstrated दौरान the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the o.k. corral थी a gunfight कि took प्लेस at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार, अक्तूबर 26, 1881, in Tombstone, Arizona Territory, and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी परिचय तीस सेकेंड, थी लड़ा between the गैरकानूनी cowboys बिली claiborne, आइक और बिली clanton, और tom और फ़्रैंक mclaury, और the opposing कस्बा मार्शल Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy claiborne भागा इससे the लड़ो unharmed, लकिन आइक 's brother Billy Clanton was killed, along with both McLaurys.
Lawmen Virgil and Morgan Earp and Doc हॉलिडे यहूद wounded.
Only Wyatt Earp came through the लड़ो unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when the frontier was open range for outlaws opposed by law enforcement that was spread thin over विशाल territories, leaving कुछ क्षेत्रों unprotected.
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart झील प्रकाशित कया रै चूंकि महरूम संकल्पित to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी, Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal, two years after Earp 's death.
Lake retold his story in a 1946 book that निदेशक जॉन घाट विकसित into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the movie gunfight at the o.k. corral थी released in 1957, the shootout came to be known by that name.
Since then, the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of सटीकता in numerous पश्चिमी films and books.
Despite its name, the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the पश्च प्रवेश to the o.k. corral on Fremont Street, and also in the street.
The two opposing parties यहूद initially तभी about apart.
About तीस गोलियाँ यहूद fired in thirty seconds.
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc हॉलिडे लकिन वे यहूद eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury.
On December 28, 1881, Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the गैरकानूनी cowboys, और on कूच 18, 1882, वे assassinated Morgan Earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, and newly नियुक्त डिप्टी u.s. मार्शल व्याट earp took matters into his own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride, ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video data and compressed/uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो आंकड़ा इससे a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the सोर्स यंत्र '' ) to a compatible computer monitor, video projector, digital television, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a डिजिटल बदलना for existing analog video standards.
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available, each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format, including standard, enhanced, high definition, और 3d वीडियो सिग्नल ; up to 8 चैनल्स of संपीडित or uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो ; a cec ( उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कंट्रोल ) कनेक्शन ; and an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards, जिससे define वीडियो स्वरुप और waveforms, transport of compressed, uncompressed, and LPCM audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA EDID.
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each other when necessary and allows the user to operate multiple devices with one रिमोट कंट्रोल handset.
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual interface ( DVI ), no signal conversion is necessary, nor is वहीँ a घाटा of वीडियो विशेषता जब a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used.
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection, HDMI is independent of the various digital television standards used by individual devices, such as ATSC and DVB, as these are encapsulations of compressed MPEG वीडियो स्ट्रीम ( जिससे can be decoded और आउटपुट as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
Production of उपभोक्ता hdmi उत्पाद प्रारंभ in late 2003.
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the HD ready in-store labeling specification लिये tv सेट लिये hdtv, प्रतिपादित by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
hdmi began to appear on उपभोक्ता HDTV camcorders and digital still cameras in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is ten years after the release of the first HDMI specification, over 3 अरब hdmi डिवाइस have shipped चूंकि the लॉन्च of the hdmi मानक.
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston ) is a fictional character and one of the four protagonists on the एबीसी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी हताश housewives.
She is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has received multiple awards and nominations for her portrayal, including an Emmy पुरस्कार नामांकन, तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार nominations, और दो स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by आलोचकों and fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young, but series creator Marc चेरी विचार वो थी बेहतर suited for the role of Bree.
Dana Delany, who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair, was originally चुनी लिये the भूमिका लकिन turned it bas, saying it was too similar to her role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been उसके कोशिशें to maintain a पूर्ण जीवन despite विभिन्न obstacles such as widowhood, divorce, and alcoholism hindering her.
She has been married three टाइम्स ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp ( स्टीवन culp ), Orson Hodge ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See also the Town of Algoma in winnebago काउंटी, विस्कॉन्सिन.
See also Algoma ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Algoma is a city in kewaunee काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of Wisconsin.
The population was 3,167 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Algoma is part of the Green Bay महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
The hangover भाग ii is a 2011 American comedy film produced by Legendary Pictures and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures.
It is the sequel to 2009 's The Hangover and the दूसरी फिल्मी in the hangover franchise.
Todd Phillips directed the फिल्मी in जोड to co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट with Craig Mazin, and Scot Armstrong.
The film stars Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach Galifianakis, Ken Jeong, जेफरी tambor, जस्टिन bartha और पॉल giamatti.
The Hangover Part II tells the स्टोरी of फिल, stu, एलन, और डग as वे सफर to Thailand for Stu 's wedding.
After the bachelor party in Las वेगास, stu takes no संभावना और opts लिये a safe, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do not go as planned, resulting in another ख़राब hangover साथ no यादें of the previous night.
Development of The Hangover भाग ii began in अप्रैल 2009, दो महीने पहले the hangover was released.
The principal actors were cast in कूच 2010 to reprise उनके roles from the first film.
Production began in October 2010, in ओंटारियो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, before moving on location in Thailand.
The film was released on May 26, 2011 and, despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics, it became the highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी दौरान इसके नाट्य run.
A तीसरा फिल्मी is नियत for on May 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, पोर्ट्रेट miniature by निकोलस Hilliard, 1588, V & A.
believed to be the Earl of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the younger, c.1592
The English पुनर्जागरण थी a सांस्कृतिक और कलाकारी गति in इंग्लैण्ड dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century.
It is संबद्ध साथ the pan-european पुनर्जागरण that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th century.
जैसे सबसे of उत्तरी यूरोपीय, इंग्लैण्ड देखी छोटी of these developments until more than a century later.
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, जब the बैटल of bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the युद्धों of the गुलाब and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty.
Renaissance style and ideas, however, यहूद slow in penetrating इंग्लैण्ड, और the elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance.
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer वारेन `` बेट्टी '' घाट ( अप्रैल 8, 1918 – जुलाई 8, 2011 ), थी पहला महिला of the United States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford.
As First Lady, she was active in social नीति और निर्मित precedents as a नीतियां active presidential wife.
Throughout her husband 's term in office, she maintained high approval ratings despite opposition from some conservative republicans जो objected to उसके अधिक मॉडरेट और liberal positions on social issues.
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate समर्थक of, और activist लिये, the बराबर अधिकारों amendment ( era ).
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement, she gained fame as one of the most candid first महिलाओं in इतिहास, commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button समस्या of the समय, सहित नारीवाद, equal pay, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
She also raised awareness of addiction when she announced her long-running बैटल साथ alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House years, she continued to lobby for the ERA और remained क्रियाशील in the feminist movement.
She was the founder, and served as the first chair of the फलक of निर्देशकों, of the बेट्टी घाट बीच लिये पदार्थ गाली और व्यसन और is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the congressional सुनहरा पदक ( co-presentation with her husband, Gerald R. Ford, October 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
Platelet endothelial कोशिका adhesion अणु ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein that in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a कुंजी भूमिका in निकालना aged neutrophils from the body.
Jessica Rafalowski, Miss फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2008
Jenna Edwards, Miss फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2007
Melissa witek, मिस फ्लोरिडा USA 2005
Kristen Berset, Miss Florida यूएसए 2004
The Miss फ्लोरिडा यूएसए प्रतियोगिता is the pageant कि selects the representative for the state Florida in the Miss USA pageant.
जबकि फ्लोरिडा रै महरूम कामयाब in शर्तें of runners-up, finalists और semi-finalists, the state has never won the Miss USA pageant, although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
Florida 's बेहतरीन परिणाम यहूद दौरान the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was Lissette Garcia who placed in the शीर्ष 16 in 2011.
Two पूर्व मिस फ्लोरिडा टीन यूएसए titleholders have won this competition, and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America.
The वर्तमान titleholder is Michelle Aguirre of Hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the भाग of ब्रिटेन कि became ज्ञात as इंग्लैण्ड, स्थायी इससे the समाप्त of रोमन occupation और स्थापना of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a सामान्य पद referring to the Germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th centuries, including Angles, Saxons, Frisii, and Jutes.
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in England, which is now पुकारा बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी, और to the संस्कृति of the era, जिससे रै long attracted popular and scholarly attention.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the heptarchy, the kingdoms of नॉर्थम्ब्रिया, mercia, ईस्ट anglia, एसेक्स, केंट, ससेक्स, और Wessex.
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism दौरान the जल्दी काल, but converted to Christianity during the 7th century.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian hegemony during the 640s, ending with the मौत of पेंदा of mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became प्रबल दौरान the 9th सदी, अंतर्गत the नियम of Alfred the Great.
During the 10th century, the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of wessex into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड, जिससे stood opposed to the danelaw, the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the Viking invasion from Denmark in 1013 and थी शासित by the हाउस of डेनमार्क जबतक 1042, जब the anglo-saxon House of Wessex was restored.
The last anglo-saxon किंग, हेरोल्ड godwinson, was killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings.
Lighting a traditional रेड ईंटों जॉन रॉस Jr kiln
स्मोक्ड सामन is a तैयारी of सामन, typically a fillet that has been cured and hot or cold smoked.
Due to its मध्यम ऊँची दाम, smoked salmon is considered a delicacy.
Although the term lox is sometimes लागू to स्मोक्ड सामन, they are different products.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड position and placement.
Defibrillation is a common उपचार लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical उर्जा to the प्रभावित दिल साथ a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms, meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक साथ छोटी, or in कुछ मामले no प्रशिक्षण at सब.
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – जनवरी 10, 1971 ) was a French fashion designer and founder of the Chanel brand.
She was the only fashion designer to appear on समय पत्रिका 's सूची of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.
Along with Paul Poiret, Chanel was credited with liberating women from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the स्वीकृति of a sportive, casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era.
A prolific fashion निर्माता, चैनल 's influence विस्तारित परे couture clothing.
Her design aesthetic was एहसास in आभूषण, हैंडबैग, और fragrance.
Her हस्ताक्षर सैंट, चैनल no. 5, has become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for उसके lifelong determination, महत्वाकांक्षा and energy which she applied to her professional and social life.
She achieved both success as a businesswoman और सोशल prominence धन्यवाद to the connections she made through her work.
These included many artists and craftspeople to जिसको वो became a patron.
however, चैनल 's अत्यधिक प्रतिस्पर्धी, opportunistic व्यक्तित्व led उसके to मेक questionable life choices which have generated controversy around her reputation, particularly her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II.
Allied Mills flour मिल on the बैंको of the मैनचेस्टर Ship Canal
A gristmill ( भी : grist मिल, corn mill or flour mill ) grinds grain into flour.
The term can refer to both the पीस यांत्रिकी और the भवन that holds it.
रोमानिया ( ; दिनाँक spellings roumania और rumania ; ) is a country located at the intersection of Central and Southeastern Europe, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania shares a किनारा साथ हंगेरियाई और सर्बिया to the west, Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and east, and Bulgaria to the south.
At, Romania is the आठवीं largest देश of the यूरोपीय संघ by क्षेत्रफल, और has the seventh largest population of the European Union with more than 19 million people.
Its capital और biggest city is Bucharest, the 11th largest city in the EU.
The United Principalities emerged when the territories of moldavia और wallachia यहूद united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 प्रिंस karl of hohenzollern-sigmaringen थी पुकारा to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in 1881 he was finally crowned as King Carol I the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence इससे the उस्मानी साम्राज्य थी घोषित on 9 may 1877, and was internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of World War I, Transylvania, Bukovina और bessarabia संयुक्त साथ the किंगडम of Romania.
World War II gave cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist General आयन antonescu, जो chose to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944.
After his हटाना, रोमानिया switched sides in 1944 and joined the Allies.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, कुछ formerly रोमानियाई northeastern territories were occupied by the Soviet Union, with Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil.
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) और a सदस्य of the वॉरसॉ Pact.
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became सामान्य सचिव of the रोमानियाई कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी, और the हर्ष austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक दमन, and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
आखिरकार उसके सत्तावादी government was toppled in December 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of 1989.
With the fall of the आयरन पर्दा, रोमानिया began इसके परिवर्तन towards democracy and a capitalist market economy.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards decline, extensive reforms fostered economic recovery.
As of 2010, रोमानिया is an upper-middle-income country with a high human development index.
Romania joined नाटो on 29 कूच 2004, and the European Union on 1 January 2007.
It is also a member of the : Latin संघ, francophonie, osce, wto, bsec, संयुक्त Nations, etc.
Today, Romania is a unitary semi-presidential republic, in जिससे the कार्यपालिका शाखा consists of the President and the Government.
`` प्राचीन '' redirects here.
For other उपयोग, देखिए प्राचीनता ( disambiguation ).
The times before लिखने belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th राजवंश ) और ग्रेट sphinx of गीज़ा ( c. 2500 bc or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written past from the शुरूआत of अंकित इंसान इतिहास to the Early Middle Ages.
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, with cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट, the oldest खोजा रूप of सुसंगत लिखने, इससे the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC.
This is the शुरूआत of इतिहास, as opposed to prehistory, according to the definition used by most historians.
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to history in the Old संसार इससे the शुरूआत of अंकित यूनानी इतिहास in 776 bc ( First Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of रोम in 753 bc, the शुरूआत of the इतिहास of प्राचीन रोम, और the शुरूआत of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece.
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed, some Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD, the closure of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD, the death of the सम्राट जुस्तिनियन i, the coming of islam or the वृद्धि of शारलेमेन as the end of ancient and Classical European history.
In India, the period includes the जल्दी काल of the मध्य kingdoms, और, in China, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included.
methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is a form of vitamin B12.
Physically it resembles the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन B12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the eight B विटामिन.
it is सामान्यतः शामिल in the चयापचय of प्रत्येक cell of the human body, especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation, but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, पौधे, nor animals are capable of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the एंजाइमों जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण, हालांकि many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially तभी through बैक्टीरियल fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a क्लास of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically विरल element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the मौलिक ढांचा of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ), but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements, and as a food additive, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving पीछे the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी of ये is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the पेट responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic फ़ैक्टर is निर्णायक लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12, so a कमी of intrinsic factor, as seen in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many अन्य subtler kinds of विटामिन b12 कमियां और their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
the रोमन साम्राज्य ( ) थी the post- रिपब्लिकन काल of the ancient Roman civilization, characterised by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, had महरूम destabilized through a श्रेणी of civil wars.
Several events marked the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य, सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the बैटल of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The पहला दो सदियां of the साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its महानतम expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd सदी, the साम्राज्य underwent a संकट कि threatened its existence, but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th सदी, दौरान जिससे समय a प्रणाली of डुअल rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the वेस्ट in the 5th सदी, the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the institutions and culture of रोम था a profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा, धर्म, वास्तुकला, दर्शनशास्त्र, विधि, और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total body सतह क्षेत्रफल ( tbsa ) is an मूल्यांकन measure of burns of the skin.
In वयस्कों, the `` नियम of nines '' is प्रयुक्त to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body.
In some cases, the burns may cover more than one body part, or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns are measured by using the casualty 's ताड़ as a सन्दर्भ point for 1 % of the body.
For children और infants, the lund-browder chart is used to assess the burned body surface area.
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the combined surface area of the head और गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children than कि of an adult.
ठेठ मान लिये आम समूह of humans follow.
( Due to rounding, मान may not add to 100 %. )
संसार शिशु मृत्यु दरों by five years averages in 2008.
This is a list of countries by शिशु मृत्यु rate.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born जून 26, 1975 ), बेहतर known by his stage name KJ-52, is a Christian rapper from Tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap alias, `` King J. Mac, '' a name which he बाद वर्णित in एक of उसके podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a सन्दर्भ to the biblical स्टोरी of यीशु feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish, which is also sung about in his song `` Push Up '' from The Yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two.
He थी awarded the rap/hip हॉप अंकित सोंग of the साल लिये `` Never Look Away '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` समाप्त of my रस्सी '', जिससे is the पहला सिंगल लिये उसके album Five-Two Television.
His song `` डिअर पतला '' is आधारित on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem.
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is प्रयुक्त, among अन्य बाते, to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g. in भौगोलिक निर्देशांक systems ), hours ( in the medical field ), or degrees of temperature.
The symbol consists of a small raised circle, historically a शून्य glyph.
In Unicode it is एनकोडेड at.
This is a list of roots, suffixes, and prefixes प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा शब्दावली, their meanings, and their etymology.
There are a few rules when using चिकित्सा जड़ें.
Firstly, prefixes and suffixes, primarily in यूनानी, लकिन भी in लैटिन, have a droppable -o-.
As a सामान्य नियम, इस -o- लगभग सदा अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = गठिया, instead of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical जड़ें generally go साथ according to भाषा : यूनानी prefixes go with Greek suffixes and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes.
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of different languages, it is advisable जब coining नई शब्द नहीं to मिक्सर अलग lingual roots.
Stomach cancer, or gastric कर्कट, refers to cancer arising from any part of the stomach.
Stomach cancer causes परिचय 800,000 मौतों विश्वव्यापी per year.
Prognosis is ग़रीब ( 5-year अस्तित्व < 5 to 15 % ) because most patients present with advanced disease.
Sara Lynn Evans ( born February 5, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी देश सिंगर and songwriter.
For her entire career, she has महरूम हस्ताक्षरित to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड नैशविले.
Evans ' debut, Three Chords and the Truth, did नहीं उपज a शीर्ष 40 hit on the hot देश Songs charts.
वो followed इस up साथ no प्लेस कि दूर ( 1998 ), Born to Fly ( 2000 ), Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a gold प्रमाणन इससे the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of America ( RIAA ), while the other three albums all were certified platinum.
These discs include the number 1 singles `` no प्लेस कि दूर ``, `` born to मक्खी ``, `` suds in the बाल्टी `` और `` a रियल ठीक प्लेस to प्रारंभ ``, प्लस the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the शीर्ष 15 हिट्स `` तुम 'll सदा be my Baby `` and `` As If ``.
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit, `` a छोटी बिट stronger ``, which was co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum.
Evans has also won one award each इससे बिलबोर्ड, the अकादमी of देश म्यूज़िक, Country Music Association, Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award.
The संसार 's प्रिंसिपल धर्मों और आध्यात्मिक परंपराओं may be वर्गीकृत into a small number of major groups, although this is by no means a uniform practice.
This theory began in the 18th सदी साथ the लक्ष्य of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies.
Berliners watching a c-54 जमीन at tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) थी एक of the पहला प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the Cold War.
दौरान the बहुराष्ट्रीय occupation of post–World War II Germany, the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway, road, and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control.
उनके उद्देश्य थी to फ़ोर्स the पश्चिमी शक्तियां to allow the सोवियत मण्डल to प्रारंभ supplying Berlin with food and fuel, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In जवाब, the पश्चिमी allies व्यवस्थित the बर्लिन airlift to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin.
Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the British Royal Air Force, the Royal Australian एयर फ़ोर्स, the royal कनाडाई एयर फ़ोर्स, the royal नई जीलैंड एयर फ़ोर्स, और the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी एयर फ़ोर्स उड़ाया over 200,000 फ़्लाइट in एक साल, providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the प्रयत्न थी clearly succeeding और, by अप्रैल, the airlift was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail.
The success of the बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट brought शर्मिंदगी to the Soviets who had refused to believe it could make a difference.
The blockade was lifted in May 1949 और resulted in the सृष्टि of two separate German states.
The Federal Republic of Germany ( West Germany ) and the German लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र ( ईस्ट जर्मनी ) विभाजित up बर्लिन.
In स्मरण of the एयरलिफ्ट, तीन एयरपोर्ट in the पूर्व western zones of the city served as the primary gateways to Germany for another fifty years.
The euro sign ; logotype और हस्तलिखित.
The euro sign is the currency sign used for the euro, the official करेंसी of the eurozone in the European Union ( EU ).
The design was presented to the public by the यूरोपीय आयोग on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter कोड ( according to आईएसओ standard ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR.
In Unicode it is एनकोडेड at.
In अंग्रेज़ी, the चिह्न precedes the value.
in कुछ styleguides, लकिन नहीं others, the euro sign is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a traditional South American infused drink, particularly in अर्जेंटीना, उरुग्वे, पैराग्वे और the दक्षिणी राज्य of ब्राज़ील और to a lesser उपाधि in दक्षिण of चिली, the bolivian chaco, सीरियाई और लेबनान.
It is prepared इससे steeping सूखी पत्ते of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water.
Mate is served with a मेटल स्ट्रॉ इससे a साझा hollow calabash gourd.
The straw is called a bombilla in कुछ लैटिन अमरीकी देशों, a bomba in Portuguese, and a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic.
The straw is traditionally बना of silver.
Modern, commercially available straws are typically बना of निकल चांदी, पुकारा Alpaca ; stainless steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil, it has the specific name of cuia, or also cabaça ( the name for Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of ब्राज़ील, स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये सामान्य खाना और पेय in remote regions ).
Even if the water is supplied from a modern thermos, the infusion is traditionally नशे from mates or cuias.
As with other brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves हैं सूखी, कटा, और मैदान into a powdery mixture called yerba.
The bombilla acts as दोनो a स्ट्रॉ और a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with छोटी छेद or स्लॉट कि allow the brewed द्रव in, लकिन block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture.
A modern bombilla डिज़ाइन उपयोग a सीधा ट्यूब साथ छेद, or spring sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` Tea-bag '' प्रकार infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the मार्केट in अर्जेंटीना, पैराग्वे और उरुग्वे for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''.
This is माना a completely अलग drink.
It is never drunk इससे cuias or पुकारा chimarrão, nor is it संबद्ध with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the डिज़ाइन, विकास, manufacture, विपणन, और selling of मोटर वाहनों, towed vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds.
It is one of the संसार 's most important economic sectors by revenue.
The term automotive industry usually does not include industries dedicated to the मेंटेनेंस of ऑटोमोबाइल following डिलीवरी to the end-user, ऐसे as मरम्मत दुकानें और मोटर fuel filling stations.
The term automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ), and लैटिन motivus ( of गति ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle.
This term थी प्रस्तावित by sae member Elmer Sperry.
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista, Jr. ( born January 18, 1969 ), is an American mixed martial artist, bodybuilder, actor, and former professional wrestler best known for his समय in संसार कुश्ती entertainment स्पर्धा अंतर्गत the ring name Batista.
In WWE, he became a six-time world champion, जीतना the संसार हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप चार टाइम्स, and the WWE Championship two times.
He is the longest-reigning संसार हेवीवेट Champion in WWE history.
In addition to these championships, Batista has won the World Tag Team चैंपियनशिप तीन टाइम्स ( twice साथ ric फ्लेयर और एकबार साथ जॉन सीना ) और the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ).
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and गई on to शीर्षक रेसलमेनिया 21, एक of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant, Batista signed a contract with the wwf in 2000 और थी भेजा to इसके developmental territory, ओहियो घाटी कुश्ती ( ovw ), जहाँ he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship.
In August 2012, bautista हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध with Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts.
He won his MMA debut on अक्तूबर 6, 2012, defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the first round.
Henry T. थामस sampson, jr. ( born in जैक्सन, Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor.
He graduated from high school in 1951 from Lanier High School in जैक्सन, मिसिसिपी.
He then attended Morehouse College for a युगल of सालो पहले transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों where he became a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity.
He received a Bachelor 's उपाधि in विज्ञान इससे purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in 1956.
He graduated with an MS उपाधि in अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the University of California, Los Angeles in 1961.
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965, and his PhD in 1967.
He is the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to earn a ph.d.in नाभिकीय Engineering in the United States.
Some of his accomplishments include being a member of the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी between the सालो 1962 and 1964 and earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967.
Later he was awarded the Black Image पुरस्कार इससे aerospace निगम in 1982.
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied Science Award, and prize for शिक्षा, by the लॉस एंजिल्स परिषद of ब्लैक पेशेवर Engineers in 1983.
In June 2007, sampson थी शादीशुदा to लौरा howzell Young in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands.
Young-Sampson is a professor in the कॉलेज of शिक्षा at कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य University San Bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ अभियान adviser लिये us अध्यक्ष Barack Obama.
previously, he थी the 28th White House Press Secretary.
Gibbs was the communications director for then- u.s. सीनेटर Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, who has worked with Obama since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns, having served as संचार निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial अभियान कमेटी और लिये चार व्यक्तिगत सीनेट अभियान, सहित those of ओबामा in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was भी the दबायें सचिव of Representative Bob Etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, Gibbs was घोषित as the दबायें सचिव of the Obama administration.
He assumed the role of press secretary on जनवरी 20, 2009, और दिया उसके पहला आधिकारिक briefing on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, Gibbs announced that he would छोड़ the श्वेत हाउस to become an बाहर adviser to the प्रशासन.
He left on फ़रवरी 11, 2011.
On February 12, 2013, it was announced कि गिब्स था महरूम नियुक्त as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC.
His first appearance was on the same night prior to the 2013 राज्य of the Union Address.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), better ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम pitbull, is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer.
His first recorded performance was from the Lil Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released his debut album titled M.I.A.M.I. ( छोटी लिये धन is a प्रमुख समस्या ) under TVT Records.
Since then, he has released three other एल्बम अंतर्गत the लेबल : el mariel in 2006, the boatlift in 2007, और Planet Pit in 2011.
He released rebelution in 2009, जिससे शामिल singles `` I Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the Hot 100 and No. 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know You want me '' peaked at no. 2 on the hot 100 और peaked भीतर the शीर्ष टेन धब्बे of चार्ट in the uk, कनाडा, Italy, and the Netherlands.
The song पहुँचे no. 1 in फ़्रांस और the European Hot 100 on the week ending August 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He बाद हस्ताक्षरित साथ पोलो grounds Music through Sony Music and created his own label Mr. 305 Inc.
Another सिंगल इससे rebelution थी `` Hotel Room Service ``, which peaked at No. 8 on the Hot 100.
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 million विश्वव्यापी डिजिटल singles और albums combined.
nevertheless, he dropped a smash called `` Give Me Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide, and featured artists Ne-yo, Nayer, and Afrojack.
He has also performed as a प्रदर्शित कलाकार in the remixes of अनेक अन्य hit गीतों, जैसे tik टोक, चीख & Shout, Lo Hecho Esta Hecho, Bad, Papi, Diamonds, How Low, Tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' You ), Video Phone, Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the मेजबान of उसके अपना spanish-language कार्यक्रम on the केबल चैनल Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ).
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' combs co-founded ख़राब लड़के लातीनी, a subsidiary of combs ' ख़राब लड़के रिकॉर्ड label.
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop, Latin soul, Latin pop and other तीव्र म्यूज़िक, और रै कार्यालयों in नई यॉर्क और Miami, Florida.
Along with co-founding it, Pérez फिलहाल heads the a & r प्रभाग of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside ड्रेक, रिहाना, और trey songz the “so kodak” अभियान लिये the कोडक ब्रांड और embarking on a साझेदारी साथ the नरम drink giant Dr Pepper as part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando.
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for Voli Vodka, in which he holds a majority इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी, और budweiser रै चुनी pitbull to प्रचार its Bud Light line of beer.
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing and gyrating on स्टेज पकड़कर up a बोतल of Bud Light.
Pitbull has also खरीदा an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in मियामी subs Pizza and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), also known as All Hallows ' Eve, is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of hallowmas.
According to many scholars, All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of samhain और रै solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, ठहराना bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions और विचार using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to प्राप्त them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving और imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of सूचना कि is वर्गीकृत or वरना.
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on सिविल और राजनैतिक अधिकारों ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the सही to थाम राय बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious ठोकर, ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों जातिगत और धार्मिक द्वेष अधिनियम 2006.
Sydney Harbour from the air, showing the Opera House, the CBD, Circular Quay, the सेतु, the parramatta नदी, उत्तर सिडनी और kirribilli in the अग्रभूमि
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across सिडनी harbour कि carries रेल, vehicular, सायकिल और पैदल traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore.
The dramatic view of the सेतु, the harbour, और the आसपास सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस is an iconic image of Sydney, New South Wales, and Australia.
The bridge is nicknamed `` the coathanger '' because of its arch-based design.
अंतर्गत the दिशानिर्देश of dr j.j.c. bradfield of the nsw Department of Public Works, the bridge was designed and built by British firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932.
The bridge 's डिज़ाइन थी बहकावे by the नरक फाटक सेतु in New York.
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 मीटर ( 160 फीट ) चौड़ी, जबतक निर्माण of the नई बंदरगाहों मन सेतु in Vancouver.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, और it is the tallest स्टील मेहराब सेतु, measuring इससे शीर्ष to जल स्तर.
Until 1967 the harbour सेतु was Sydney 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake हवाई आइलैंड्स, in the उत्तरी प्रशांत समंदर.
One of the most well-known and heavily पढ़ाई हॉटस्पॉट in the संसार, the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार लिये the सृष्टि of the हवाई – सम्राट seamount कड़ी, an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes, four of which are active, two of which are dormant, and more than 123 of which are extinct, many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from south of the island of Hawaii to the किनारे of the aleutian गर्त, निकट the पूर्वी किनारे of रूस.
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries, the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory, first proposed in 1963 by जॉन tuzo विल्सन, proposes कि a सिंगल, फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds ज्वालामुखी कि तब, काटें बंद इससे उनके source by the movement of the Pacific Plate, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years.
according to इस सिद्धान्त, the nearly 60° बेंड separating the Emperor and Hawaiian segments of the chain was caused by a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific Plate.
In 2003, fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory, suggesting कि हॉटस्पॉट हैं मोबाईल, not fixed, and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing आयु और weathered राज्य of the ज्वालामुखी to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands.
the volatile राज्य of the हवाई volcanoes and their constant battle with the sea was a major element in Hawaiian mythology, embodied in Pele, the deity of volcanoes.
After the arrival of Europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana निर्देशित the पहला औपचारिक geological पढ़ाई of the हॉटस्पॉट 's volcanics, confirming the relationship long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist थामस jaggar, initiating निरन्तर वैज्ञानिक अवलोकन of the islands.
In the 1970s, a मानचित्रण प्रोजेक्ट थी initiated to लाभ अधिक information about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged, showing it to be wide and up to गहन, और ओलीवाइन and garnet -based studies have shown its magma chamber is approximately.
In its at least 85 million years of activity the हॉटस्पॉट रै उत्पादित an estimated of rock.
The chain 's rate of drift has धीरे increased over समय, causing the राशि of समय प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत ज्वालामुखी is क्रियाशील to घटी, इससे 18 लाख सालो लिये the 76 लाख year old Detroit Seamount, to just under 900,000 for the one million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand, eruptive volume has increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes on the near side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as हवाई द्वीप और the प्राचीन मावी नुई ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
David Palmer, निदेशक of the दिखाएँ, घोषित कि the season 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show.
Petitions are being signed to bring the दिखाएँ लिये a पांचवां ऋतु.
The show airs on treehouse tv कनाडा और Nick Jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the cruisers is a 1983 अमरीकी फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्टिन डेविडसन साथ the पटकथा written by the director and Arlene Davidson, based on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
It was marketed साथ the टैगलाइन `` Rebel.
रॉकर.
प्रेमी.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the जबड़ों ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible.
Various फ़ॉर्म of onj have महरूम वर्णित over the पिछला 160 years, and a number of causes have been suggested in the literature.
Osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate therapy, required by some cancer treatment regimens, has been पहचाना और पारिभाषित as a pathological एंटिटी चूंकि 2003.
The संभावित रिस्क इससे निम्नतर मौखिक doses of bisphosphonates, taken by patients to prevent or treat osteoporosis, remains uncertain.
Various treatment options have been explored, however severe cases of ONJ स्टिल आवश्यकता सर्जिकल हटाना of the प्रभावित bone.
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing प्रणालीगत समस्याएं और संभावित साइट of दंत संक्रमण हैं जरूरी to help prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball टोली आधारित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, और a सदस्य of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division.
Founded in as one of the American लीग 's आठ चार्टर franchises, the Red Sox 's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since.
The `` Red sox '' नाम थी चुनी by the टोली मालिक, जॉन I. टेलर, around, following previous Boston teams that had been known as the `` Red Stockings ``.
They have played in 11 संसार श्रेणी, winning 7.
Boston was a dominant team in the new league, defeating the पिट्सबर्ग pirates in the पहला संसार श्रेणी in और जीतना four more championships by.
However, they then went into एक of the longest चैंपियनशिप droughts in बेसबॉल इतिहास, पुकारा by कुछ the `` अभिशाप of the bambino `` बाद इसके कथित beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees two years after their world championship in 1918, an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in.
However, the team 's history during कि काल थी hardly एक of futility, लकिन थी बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे यादगार moments in World Series history, including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` Impossible Dream `` of, Carlton Fisk 's home run in, and Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history has भी महरूम चिह्नित by the टोली 's तीव्र फंसने साथ the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़, arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports.
The Boston Red Sox are स्वामित्व by fenway खेल समूह, जो भी अपना लिवरपूल Football Club of the Premier League in England.
The Red Sox are consistently one of the top MLB teams in average road attendance, while the छोटी क्षमता of fenway पार्क रोकता उन्हें from leading in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 नियमित ऋतु ) लिये a प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल रिकार्ड कि lasted almost a decade.
Mince पाई भर साथ mincemeat
Mincemeat is a मिश्रण of कटा सूखी फल, आसुत spirits and spices, and sometimes beef suet, beef, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat सदा contained meat.
अनेक आधुनिक व्यंजनों contain बीफ suet, though vegetable shortening is sometimes used in its place.
Variants of mincemeat are मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्रिटनी, कनाडा, उत्तरी यूरोपीय, आयरलैंड, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In some countries the पद mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana frances ; née स्पेंसर ; 1 जुलाई 1961 – 31 अगस्त 1997 ) was the first wife of Charles, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
She was well known for her fund-raising कार्य लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ और as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 जुलाई 1981 थी आयोजित at st पॉल 's गिरजाघर और देखी by a वैश्विक television audience of over 750 million.
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales, Duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, duchess of rothesay, countess of चेस्टर and Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage produced two बेटे, the princes विलियम और हैरी, जो became second and third in line to the British throne.
Diana was born into an aristocratic अंग्रेज़ी परिवार साथ royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th Earl स्पेंसर और उसके बीवी frances, बेटी of मौरिस रोश, 4th Baron Fermoy.
She became a public फिगर साथ the घोषणा of her engagement.
She also received recognition लिये उसके दान कार्य और for her support of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines.
From 1989, she was the president of the ग्रेट ormond गली हॉस्पिटल लिये children, in addition to dozens of other charities.
Diana remained the object of विश्वव्यापी मीडिया scrutiny during and after her marriage, which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
Media attention and public mourning were considerable following उसके मौत in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997.
अर्जेंटीना, officially the अर्जेंटाइन गणतंत्र ( ), is the दूसरी largest देश in both South America and the Latin America region.
The country is a federation of 23 प्रांतों और the autonomous city of Buenos Aires, its capital and largest city.
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 और is the चौथी by population, with over 41 million people.
अर्जेंटीना is a founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, mercosur, the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र, the Organization of Ibero-American States, the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South America, bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण, बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the north and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast.
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica, the फ़ॉकलैंड आइलैंड्स ( ) और दक्षिण जॉर्जिया और the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor state of the viceroyalty of the río de la प्लाटा, an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire.
Argentina declared independence during the अर्जेंटाइन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, जिससे थी followed by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The country faced several military coups and political instability दौरान the 20th सदी, साथ साथ आवधिक आर्थिक crisis that continue to this day.
A recognized दक्षिणी कोन शक्ति, और मध्य शक्ति, अर्जेंटीना is Latin America 's third-largest economy, with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index.
Within Latin America, Argentina रै the पांचवां उच्चतम नाममात्र जीडीपी प्रति capita और the highest in purchasing power terms.
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future growth due to its market size, levels of foreign direct निवेश, और प्रतिशत of high-tech निर्यात as share of कुल manufactured goods '', and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy.
अर्जेंटीना is the लैटिन अमरीकी देश साथ the सबसे नोबेल पुरस्कार, लिये a कुल of five, all obtained during the second half of the twentieth century.
The country has three नोबेल पुरस्कार in विज्ञान and two of peace.
The most important पहलुओं of विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी in अर्जेंटीना हैं चिंतित साथ आयुर्विज्ञान, नाभिकीय भौतिकी, जैवप्रौद्योगिकी, nanotechnology, स्पेस और प्रक्षेपास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the mega exhibition center of विज्ञान, प्रौद्योगिकी, उद्योग और आर्ट कि are Latin America 's largest.
hickory is a नगर in catawba काउंटी, with parts also in Burke County and Caldwell County.
The city 's 2010 estimated जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010.
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA, in जिससे the जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated PET, PETE, or the obsolete PETP or PET-P, is a thermoplastic polymer राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक fibers ; beverage, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber.
the पद polyethylene terephthalate is a सोर्स of confusion because this substance, PET, does not contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate form, poly ( ethylene terephthalate ), is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly जर्नल्स for the sake of accuracy and clarity.
Depending on its processing and thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may मौजूद दोनो as an amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer.
The semicrystalline material might appear पारदर्शी ( कण आकार < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी और श्वेत ( कण size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct, or by transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done immediately बाद esterification/transesterification ) साथ जल as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), साथ बोतल उत्पादन हिसाब लिये around 30 % of वैश्विक माँग.
In the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of वस्त्र अनुप्रयोग, पालतु is referred to by its common name, `` polyester, '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer उत्पादन और is the third-most-produced पॉलिमर ; polyethylene ( pe ) और polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized units of the मोनोमर एथिलीन terephthalate, साथ repeating C10H8O4 units.
PET is commonly recycled, और रै the क्रमांक `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol.
Louisiana was admitted to the संघ on अप्रैल 30, 1812, और elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3.
Its current senators are Democrat Mary landrieu और रिपब्लिकन दाउद vitter.
Black pudding, blood pudding or blood sausage is a type of sausage made by cooking blood or dried blood साथ a फिलर जबतक it is मोटा पर्याप्त to congeal when cooled.
The dish exists in various cultures from एशिया to यूरोपीय और the americas.
Pig, cattle, sheep, duck, and goat रक्त can be प्रयुक्त depending on different countries.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers include meat, fat, suet, bread, cornmeal, मीठी आलू, प्याज, chestnuts, जौ, और oatmeal.
In Spain, Portugal और एशिया, आलू is प्रायः replaced by rice.
Stakeholder may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, group, organization, member or system who affects or can be प्रभावित by an संगठन 's क्रियाएँ
शेयरधारक, an एंटिटी कि can be प्रभावित by the results of that in which they are said to be stakeholders, i.e., that in which they have a stake.
Project stakeholder, a person, group or organization साथ an ब्याज in a project
Stakeholder theory, a सिद्धान्त कि identifies और मॉडल the समूह जिससे हैं stakeholders of a corporation or project
Stakeholder विश्लेषण, the प्रक्रम of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ), a third party जो temporarily holds धन or प्रॉपर्टी while its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9, 1925 - सितंबर 1, 2003 ) was an American theatre and film director.
Smight थी born in मिनियापोलिस, मिनेसोटा and went to school with future actor Peter Graves.
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner, Rabbit, Run, Loving Couples, Midway, Harper, विमानक्षेत्र 1975, फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning Eddie, as well as many episodes of television series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour.
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th Cousin and composed the music for the film adaption of फेंकें of थंडर Hear My Cry.
Smight died from कर्कट in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S. 27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) थी a रूसी केमिस्ट और आविष्कारक.
He formulated the Periodic Law, created his own version of the periodic table of elements, and used it to correct the गुण of कुछ already खोजा तत्व और भी to भविष्यवाणी the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ), officially the City of Modesto, is the county seat and largest city of stanislaus काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States.
With a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census, modesto बाँधने as the 18th largest नगर in the राज्य of California.
The Modesto Census County Division, जिससे शामिल the शहरों of ceres और riverbank, has a population of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the central valley area of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 90 मील उत्तर of fresno, 92 मील ईस्ट of सैन फ्रांसिस्को, 68 मील south of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles south of Stockton.
modesto, a 29-time पेड़ नगर यूएसए honoree, is घिरी by समृद्ध farmland, lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, मुर्गियों, अखरोट, और मकई साइलेज, the काउंटी grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011.
modesto थी immortalized in the 1973 George Lucas film American Graffiti.
The award winning film captured the स्पिरिट of `` cruising '' और दोस्ती on 10th और 11th गलियों in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, Harrison Ford and Richard dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in the film.
The soundtrack was a विशाल कामयाबी.
Director George Lucas is a native of modesto, graduating इससे downey High School in 1962.
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, जिससे साक्षात्कार 1,000 भागीदार रोज़ और asks individuals to assess उनके jobs, finances, physical health, emotional state of mind and communities, ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
in दिसम्बर 2009, फोर्ब्स क्रमित modesto 48th out of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities ''.
In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability and travel time लकिन भी क्रमित 86th in जॉब भविष्यवाणी विकास और 99th in foreclosures.
Independence Day, commonly ज्ञात as the चौथी of जुलाई, is a संघीय अवकाश in the संयुक्त राज्य commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
स्वतंत्रता दिन is commonly संबद्ध साथ आतिशबाजी, parades, barbecues, carnivals, मेलों, picnics, कॉन्सर्ट, बेसबॉल खेल, परिवार reunions, and political speeches and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the United States.
Independence Day is the नेशनल दिन of the संयुक्त States.
A लिंग प्रतीक denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an agent by gender.
The two मानक लिंग प्रतीकों denoting पुरूष ♂ और मादा ♀ हैं derived from astrological symbols, denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus, respectively.
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting तत्व in alchemy, specifically the metals iron and copper.
They were first used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e. sex of individual in a given crossbreed, चूंकि सबसे पौधे हैं hermaphroditic ) by carolus लीनियस in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary right to hold land or property in which a lessee or a किरायेदार holds अधिकारों of रियल प्रॉपर्टी by कुछ form of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a tenant does थाम अधिकारों to रियल प्रॉपर्टी, a leasehold estate is typically considered personal property.
Leasehold is a form of land कार्यकाल or प्रॉपर्टी कार्यकाल जहाँ एक पार्टी खरीदता the सही to occupy land or a building for a given length of time.
As lease is a legal एस्टेट, leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market.
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is खरीदा outright और thereafter आयोजित for an indeterminate length of time, and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly.
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease, जिससे रै तत्व of अनुबंध and property law intertwined.
The term estate for years may occasionally be प्रयुक्त.
This refers to a leasehold एस्टेट लिये कोई विशिष्ट period of time ( the word `` years '' is misleading ).
An estate for सालो is नहीं automatically renewed.
Colloquially, `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer, specific period as compared with a `` rental '' कि निर्मित a tenancy at होगा, terminable or बेदर्दी at the समाप्त of a छोटी काल.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig Olivia ) is a British-American children 's एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित by मीडिया कम्पनी chorion और based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is देखी on उपनाम jr. in the US, Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the uk और आयरलैंड, और डिज़्नी Junior in Latin America and Brazil, Treehouse TV in Canada.
The show रै जीती a चांदी अभिभावक ' चुनाव पुरस्कार लिये its positive story lines and characters.
Location of Panama between Pacific ( bottom ) and caribbean ( शीर्ष ), साथ canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship कनाल in पनामा कि connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean.
The canal कटौती आरपार the isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
There are locks at each end to लिफ्ट जहाजों up to gatun Lake ( above sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the amount of कार्य जरूरी लिये the canal.
The current ताले हैं wide.
A तीसरा, wider लेन of ताले is being built.
France began work on the canal in 1881, but had to stop because of अभियान्त्रिकी समस्याएं और ऊँची मृत्यु due to disease.
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914, enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy केप सींग रूट around the southernmost टिप of दक्षिण अमेरिका ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult engineering प्रोजेक्ट कभी undertaken, the पनामा कनाल शॉर्टकट बना it संभावित for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required.
The shorter, faster, safer route to the US West Coast and to nations in and along the Pacific Ocean allowed those स्थान to become अधिक एकीकृत साथ the संसार economy.
During this time, ownership of the territory that is now the Panama Canal was first Colombian, then French, और तब अमरीकी ; the संयुक्त राज्य समाप्त the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the panamanian सरकारी, as long planned.
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 जहाजों जब the कनाल खोली in 1914, to 14,702 बरतन in 2008, the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons.
By 2008, more than 815,000 vessels था passed through the कनाल, अनेक of उन्हें much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax.
The American Society of Civil Engineers रै नामित the पनामा कनाल one of the seven wonders of the modern world.
Benjamin Franklin ( अप्रैल 17, 1790 ) थी एक of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
A noted polymath, Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, politician, postmaster, वैज्ञानिक, संगीतकार, आविष्कारक, satirist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat.
As a वैज्ञानिक, he थी a प्रमुख फिगर in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
He invented the lightning rod, bifocals, the फ्रैंकलिन स्टोव, a carriage ओडोमीटर, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated अनेक नागरिक संगठन, सहित a fire department and a university.
Franklin earned the title of `` the पहला अमरीकी '' लिये उसके जल्दी और indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक unity ; as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies, then as the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation.
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing संस्थानों, और विपक्ष to authoritarianism दोनो राजनैतिक और धार्मिक, साथ the वैज्ञानिक और tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the words of historian Henry स्टील commager, `` in a फ्रैंकलिन could be मिलाया the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat. ''
To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin `` the most संपन्नता अमरीकी of उसके आयु और the सबसे influential in inventing the type of society America would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working क्लास जड़ें, became a कामयाब समाचारपत्र एडिटर और मुद्रक in फिलाडेल्फिया, the leading city in the colonies.
He was also partners with William Goddard and जोसेफ गैलोवे the तीन of जिसको प्रकाशित the पेन्सिलवेनिया वृत्तान्त, a समाचारपत्र कि थी ज्ञात लिये its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies.
He became धनवान प्रकाशन Poor Richard 's Almanack and The Pennsylvania Gazette.
Franklin gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय renown as a वैज्ञानिक लिये उसके प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in electricity and for his many inventions, especially the lightning rod.
He played a major role in establishing the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया और थी निर्वाचित the first president of the American Philosophical Society.
फ्रैंकलिन became a नेशनल नायिका in अमेरिका जब he spearheaded the effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the फ्रेंच as अमरीकी मंत्री to पेरिस and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations.
For अनेक सालो he थी the British postmaster for the colonies, which enabled him to set up the first national communications network.
He was active in जातियाँ अफेयर्स, औपनिवेशिक और state politics, as well as national and international affairs.
From 1785 to 1788, he परोसा as राज्यपाल of Pennsylvania.
Toward the समाप्त of उसके जीवन, he freed his slaves and became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and status as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen फ्रैंकलिन सम्मानित on coinage और धन ; warships ; the names of अनेक कस्बों, काउंटी, शैक्षणिक संस्थानों, namesakes, और कंपनियाँ ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
दण्ड minds is an अमरीकी पुलिस procedural television program that premiered September 22, 2005, on CBS.
The series follows a team of profilers इससे the एफबीआई 's Behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico, Virginia.
the bau is भाग of the एफबीआई नेशनल Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime.
The show differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग the दण्ड, बल्कि than the crime itself.
the दिखाएँ is उत्पादित by the चिह्नित गॉर्डन कम्पनी in संघ साथ सीबीएस टेलीविज़न Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS announced in October 2009 कि विरासत इंटरैक्टिव होता develop a video game based on the show.
The game would require players to जाँचें अपराधों दृश्यों लिये clues to help solve murder mysteries.
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012, but did not feature any of the voices of the दिखाएँ 's डाल, nor थी the डाल शामिल with the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed दण्ड minds लिये an आठवीं ऋतु, जिससे premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a सोंग by the अमरीकी grunge बैंड निर्वाण, written by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain.
The song was released as the first single from the समूह 's तीसरा और फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम, In Utero, in 1993.
It was one of two songs from the album mixed by Scott Litt in order to augment the असली उत्पादन by निर्माता स्टीव Albini.
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in the संयुक्त राज्य, `` heart-shaped बक्सा '' प्राप्त much American radio airplay, reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart.
The international release of the single reached क्रमांक पाँच on the uk singles चार्ट.
The song 's music video, directed by एंटोन corbijn, garnered नाजुक plaudits.
The orbital speed of a body, generally a planet, a natural satellite, an artificial satellite, or a multiple star, is the गति at जिससे it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed, the average speed as it completes an कक्षा, or instantaneous कक्षीय गति, the गति at a particular point in its orbit.
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed इससे the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल देह at कि स्थिति, और the विशिष्ट orbital energy, which is independent of position : the kinetic energy is the total energy minus the potential energy.
Brown Palace आंतरिक और Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel in Denver, कोलोराडो और is एक of the पहला atrium-style होटल कभी built.
It is now operated by कोरम होटल और रिसॉर्ट.
it थी निर्मित in 1892, एक साल later than the Oxford Hotel.
It थी नामित लिये इसके असली मालिक, हेनरी C. भूरा, और was designed with its odd triangular shape by architect Frank Edbrooke.
The hotel is located at 321 17th St, Denver, CO between 17th गली, ब्रॉडवे और tremont street/pl in शहर Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
The प्रमुख प्रवेश द्वार is on Tremont Street.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is currently the dominant consumer वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया, उत्तर अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, और Australia.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 डिकोडर ( e.g., a dvd खिलाड़ी, or a कंप्यूटर DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies हैं एनकोडेड using a संयोजन of h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 संपीडित video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate for dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was पहला उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification थी निर्मित by dvd Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is नहीं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ, because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the dvd किताब is मालिकाना and confidential.
The nautical mile ( प्रतीक m, nm or nmi ) is a ईकाई of लंबाई कि is परिचय एक मिनट of arc of latitude measured along any meridian, or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator.
By international agreement it रै महरूम नियत at 1,852 मीटर exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for use in the International System of Units by the BIPM ) प्रयुक्त विशेषकर by navigators in the शिपिंग और विमानन उद्योग, और also in polar exploration.
It is commonly used in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि और treaties, विशेषकर regarding the limits of territorial waters.
It विकसित इससे the समुद्र mile and the related geographical mile.
The nautical मील remains in उपयोग by समुद्र और एयर navigators विश्वव्यापी because of its convenience when working with charts.
सबसे nautical चार्ट उपयोग the मर्केटर प्रक्षेप जिनकी स्केल varies by परिचय a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude, so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of अक्षांश on a चार्ट, so a अलहदा measured साथ a चार्ट divider can be roughly परिवर्तित to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale.
shippensburg is a बरो in Cumberland and Franklin counties in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania.
Settled in 1730, Shippensburg lies in the Cumberland Valley, 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of harrisburg, और is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; और in 1940, 5,244 people lived there.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 5,492 at the 2010 census.
Shippensburg was incorporated as a बरो on जनवरी 21, 1819.
In the past, there were फर्नीचर कारखानों, इंजन और पंप works, and other industrial works located within the town.
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest manufacturer of सजावट और पार्टी goods, जिससे बिकता इसके distinctive मधुकोश पेपर सजावट worldwide.
It is also the location of Pague and Fegan, the oldest लगातार संचालित हार्डवेयर स्टोर in Pennsylvania.
In May 2012, Volvo निर्माण उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख विस्तार प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ इसके अमरीकी headquarters to Shippensburg.
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg University of पेन्सिलवेनिया, एक of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया State System of Higher Education.
Yearly the last full week of जुलाई, the shippensburg Community Fair is held.
Begun in 1958, the fair bills itself as पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest bi-county fair.
The fair शामिल agricultural दर्शाती, a शिल्प दिखाएँ, खाना विक्रेता, and carnival rides amongst other things.
Every summer on the पिछला शनिवार of अगस्त, shippensburg holds the मकई पर्व, an event that brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands downtown.
The शहर is बंद to ट्रैफ़िक लिये at least 5 blocks for most of the day.
Average attendance at the festival is अनुमानित at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
ब्लैक बालदार जीभ ( bht, भी termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance.
The appearance may be alarming, लकिन it is a हानिरहित condition.
Predisposing factors include smoking, xerostomia ( dry mouth ), soft diet, ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene और निश्चित medications.
Management is by improving oral hygiene, especially scraping or brushing the जीभ.
The IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface standard for high-speed संचार और isochronous real-time data transfer.
It was developed in the late 1980s और जल्दी 1990s by Apple, who called it FireWire.
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB, and often those two technologies हैं माना साथ, हालांकि USB has more market share.
Apple first शामिल firewire in कुछ of इसके 1999 मॉडल, and most Apple computers since the year 2000 have included FireWire ports, though, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK ( Sony ), और लिंक्स ( टेक्सास Instruments ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many अनुप्रयोग, क्युकी of निम्नतर क्रियान्वयन लागत और a सरलीकृत, more adaptable cabling system.
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane इंटरफ़ेस, हालांकि इस is नहीं as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network गठबंधन ( हाना ) मानक कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस for A/V ( audio/visual ) component communication and control.
FireWire is also available in wireless, fiber ऑप्टिक, और समाक्षीय संस्करण using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) was an American guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his आद्याक्षर srv, vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon, वे ignited the ब्लूज़ पुनरुद्धार of the 1980s.
With a career spanning सात सालो, vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold.
He was born and raised in Dallas, Texas, and for a short काल of समय जिया in ग्राहम, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, Vaughan started playing the guitar at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical career, joining groups such as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple threat revue, a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, catching the ध्यान of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance, while Browne offered the band free use of his निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स to रिकार्ड an album.
In March 1983, vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to Epic Records by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album, Texas Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed सफलतापूर्वक, vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया to दे up a कोका और दारू habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released और अर्जित उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for Best Contemporary Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a performance in East Troy, Wisconsin.
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र style was derived from a variety of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King, Freddie King, Otis Rush, and Muddy Waters, और चट्टान guitarists ऐसे as जिमि हेंड्रिक्स और lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic तराजू.
He has received चौड़ी नाजुक मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing, ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He थी मरणोपरांत inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely माना to be एक of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas.
GigE redirects here.
For the कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल, see GigE vision.
In computer नेटवर्किंग, gigabit ईथरनेट ( gbe or 1 gige ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ), as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
It आए into उपयोग शुरूआत in 1999, धीरे supplanting Fast Ethernet in wired local networks, where it performed considerably faster.
The cables and equipment are very समान to पिछला मानकों and were very common and economical by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are allowed by the specification, but full-duplex usage with switches is much अधिक आम.
Intel pro/1000 gt पीसीआई network interface card
The main components of a stamp:
1. चित्र
2. perforations
3. denomination
4. देश नाम
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as प्रमाण of भुगतान of postage.
Typically, stamps are बना इससे खास पेपर, with a national designation and denomination ( price ) on the face, and a gum adhesive on the reverse side.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other प्राधिकृत विक्रेता और हैं प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल in moving mail as well as other business necessities such as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a छोटी आयताकार of varying proportions, हालांकि त्रिकोण or other shapes are occasionally used.
The stamp is affixed to an envelope or अन्य डाक कवर ( i.e., पैकेट, box, mailing cylinder ) that the customer wishes to send.
The item is then processed by the postal system, जहाँ a postmark, sometimes ज्ञात as a रद्दीकरण चिह्नित, is प्रायः लागू over the स्टैम्प and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the तिथि और पाइंट of उत्पत्ति of the mailing.
The mailed मद is तब वितरित to the address that the customer has applied to the envelope or cover.
Postage stamps have facilitated the डिलीवरी of मेल चूंकि the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ), प्रायः बना इससे लकडी or कॉर्क, यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त to फ़्रैंक the मेल और confirm the payment of postage.
The first adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the Penny ब्लैक, थी जारी in the संयुक्त Kingdom in 1840.
The invention of the स्टैम्प थी a भाग of the attempt to सुधार और improve the डाक system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, which in the early 19th century was in disarray and rife with corruption.
There are varying accounts of the आविष्कारक or आविष्कारक of the stamp.
Before the परिचय of postage stamps, मेल in the uk थी सशुल्क लिये by the प्राप्तकर्ता, a प्रणाली कि थी संबद्ध साथ an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम : the लागत of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items, and senders had no incentive to restrict the number, size, or weight of items sent, whether or not they would ultimately be paid for.
the postage स्टैम्प resolved इस समस्या in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner, with the additional benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced.
Later related inventions include postal स्टेशनरी ऐसे as prepaid-postage लिफाफे, पोस्ट ताश, lettercards, aerogrammes और wrappers, postage meters, and, more recently, specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing.
The postage स्टैम्प afforded convenience लिये दोनो the मेलर और डाक officials, more efficiently recovered costs for the postal service, and ultimately resulted in a better, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way of paying लिये मेल, लकिन by the end of the 20th century were rapidly being eclipsed by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses. )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st due to घटती लागत of long अलहदा टेलीफोन communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with उनके engraved imagery began to appear on a फैली basis, historians and collectors began to take notice.
The study of postage stamps and their use is referred to as philately.
Stamp collecting can be दोनो a शौक और a रूप of ऐतिहासिक पढ़ाई और सन्दर्भ, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations.
The University of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम ( uab ) is a public university in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama.
Developing from an extension center established in 1936, the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is today one of three institutions in the University of Alabama System.
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions अग्रणी to स्नातक 's, निपुण 's, डॉक्टरेट, और पेशेवर डिग्री in the सोशल और behavioral sciences, the liberal arts, business, education, engineering, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, and public health.
The स्कूल is अत्यधिक प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके चिकित्सा research and natural sciences programs.
The UAB Health System, एक of the largest अकादमिक चिकित्सा centers in the United States, is affiliated with the university.
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in various चिकित्सा specialties, सहित आतंरिक आयुर्विज्ञान, neurology, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified स्तर i आघात बीच in Alabama, as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest employer, with more than 18,000 संकाय और स्टाफ और over 53,000 jobs at the university and in the health system.
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the birmingham-hoover महानगर क्षेत्रफल और 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall annual economic impact was अनुमानित to be $ 4.6 अरब in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the विश्वविद्यालयों of Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students from more than 110 countries, including 1,605 freshmen.
There are plans to commence with an `` आक्रामक '' विकास in नामांकन at uab.
The current uab अध्यक्ष is dr. Ray L. Watts.
टोफू, भी पुकारा bean curd, is a food made by coagulating soy juice and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
It is a component in अनेक ईस्ट एशियाई और southeast एशियाई cuisines.
There are many different किस्में of टोफू, सहित भैस टोफू और tofu that has been processed in some way.
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in savory और मीठी बर्तन.
It is प्रायः seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
Tofu originated in प्राचीन China some 2,000 years ago.
Chinese legend ascribes its आविष्कार to प्रिंस लियू an ( चाइनीज : 劉安 Liú Ān, 179–122 BC ).
टोफू और इसके उत्पादन technique were introduced into Korea and then Japan during the Nara period.
It spread into अन्य भाग of ईस्ट एशिया as well.
This spread likely coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of buddhism क्युकी it is an महत्वपूर्ण source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism.
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty described a विधि of बनाना टोफू in bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie count, relatively विशाल amounts of प्रोटीन, और छोटी fat.
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in manufacturing, may also be ऊँची in कैल्सियम and/or मैग्नीशियम.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee, known for being the one-time pet of अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार माइकल जैक्सन, जो खरीदा the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s.
The animal was a frequent सफर साथी to the सिंगर, जिनकी अनुलग्नक to the animal led to media mockery and, among other factors, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric.
During the Bad World Tour, for example, जैक्सन brought बुलबुले साथ उसे to जापानी, where they both drank tea with the mayor of Osaka.
Bubbles was initially kept at the Jackson परिवार 's घर in encino, लॉस एंजिल्स, लकिन थी स्थानांतरित to Neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom, used the सिंगर 's प्रसाधन, और ate कैंडी in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the public learned that, like all captive chimpanzees, बुलबुले था matured into a विशाल और आक्रामक adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal.
He was sent to a California animal trainer, where he was reported to have attempted suicide.
When the trainer shut bas उसके आपरेशन in 2004, बुलबुले थी स्थानांतरित to the Center for Great Apes, a sanctuary in Wauchula, Florida, where he has lived since 2005.
Muse are an English rock band from teignmouth, देवों, जिससे formed in 1994.
The band consists of school मित्रों मैथ्यू bellamy ( सीसे vocals, सीसे गिटार, पियानो, keyboards, keytar ), क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( bass, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of their 2006 album ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे, keyboardist और percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band.
Muse are known लिये उनके ऊर्जावान और हद सजीव प्रदर्शन और उनके संलयन of अनेक म्यूज़िक जाति, including space rock, progressive rock, alternative rock, heavy metal, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ), Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ), absolution ( 2003 ), ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे ( 2006 ), The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have भी जारी तीन सजीव एल्बम, hullabaloo साउंडट्रैक ( 2002 ), जिससे is भी a संकलन of B-sides, Absolution Tour ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
Black Holes and Revelations earned the band a पारा पुरस्कार नामांकन और a तीसरा प्लेस finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006.
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history, including five MTV Europe Music Awards, six Q Awards, eight NME Awards, two Brit Awards —winning `` बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों सजीव अधिनियम '' twice, an MTV Video Music Award, four Kerrang !
Awards and an अमरीकी म्यूज़िक Award.
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards, of which they won बेहतरीन चट्टान एल्बम, लिये उनके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम the प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ).
Muse have sold over 15 लाख albums worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital city of the Free State प्रांत of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; और, as the न्यायिक पूंजी of the स्वदेश, एक of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's तीन नेशनल राजधानी – the other two being Cape Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly और poetically ज्ञात as `` the नगर of गुलाब ``, owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there.
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung, meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it has been शामिल in the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका चूंकि 2000.
Bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क घासभूमि at, at an altitude of above sea level.
The city is home to 369,568 निवासियों, जबकि the mangaung Local Municipality has a population of 645,455.
जहाँ do We Come From ?
What हैं we ?
जहाँ हैं We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध paintings.
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance of जीवन or अस्तित्व in general.
It can भी be expressed in अलग फ़ॉर्म, ऐसे as `` Why are we here ? ``, `` What is life all about ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It has been the subject of much philosophical, वैज्ञानिक, and theological speculation throughout history.
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many अलग सांस्कृतिक और वैचारिक पृष्ठभूमि.
The meaning of जीवन is in the philosophical और धार्मिक conceptions of अस्तित्व, सोशल ties, consciousness, and happiness, and borders on many other issues, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple Gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing सम्बन्धित अनुभवजन्य तथ्य परिचय the ब्रह्मांड, exploring the context and parameters concerning the 'how ' of life.
विज्ञान भी अध्ययन और can provide सुझाव for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality.
An alternative, humanistic approach poses the सवाल `` कया is the अर्थ of my जीवन ? ''
The मान of the सवाल pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the achievement of ultimate reality, or a feeling of oneness, or even a feeling of sacredness.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter griffin, stewie griffin, ब्रायन griffin, और Glenn Quagmire.
Family Guy is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच main voice actors, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
The प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ डाल consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, एलेक्स borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila kunis ( जो replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include पैट्रिक warburton, आदम वेस्ट, जॉन G. ब्रेनन, निकोल सुलीवान और Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many cast members provide आवाज़ें लिये multiple characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the दिखाएँ, draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture.
Family Guy characters have been played by अधिक than एक कर्ता, बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ left the series or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, हालांकि no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 Illustration by एडमंड dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` the राजकुमारी on the मटर '' ) is a साहित्यिक परी टेल by hans ईसाई andersen परिचय a यंग स्त्री जिनकी royal पहचान is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first published with three others by Andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 may 1835 in Copenhagen by C.A. Reitzel.
Andersen had heard the story as a child, and it likely has its source in folk material, possibly originating इससे स्वीडन as it is अनजान in the डैनिश मौखिक परंपरा.
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 यहूद खूब प्राप्त by डैनिश आलोचकों, who disliked their casual, chatty style, and their lack of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess and the Pea '' थी adapted to the musical स्टेज in a उत्पादन called Once Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett.
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the संयुक्त राज्य जो यहूद either born in Germany or are of German ancestry.
वे comprise परिचय 50 लाख लोगों, बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish Americans, African Americans and English Americans.
They comprise about 1/3 of the जर्मनी diaspora all over the world.
None of the German राज्य had New World colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the first significant समूह of जर्मनी आप्रवासियों arrive in the अंग्रेजों colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania.
Immigration जारी in बहुत विशाल संख्याएँ दौरान the 19th century, with some eight million arrivals from Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom, और धकेल आउट of यूरोपीय by shortages of land and religious or political oppression.
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom, others for economic opportunities greater than those in Europe, and others बस लिये the मौका to प्रारंभ भैस in the New World.
The arrivals before 1850 यहूद ज़्यादातर किसानो जो sought आउट the सबसे उत्पादक land, where their intensive farming techniques would pay off.
After 1840, many came to cities, where `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon उभरा.
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United States, introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा, और originated लोकप्रिय अमरीकी भोजन ऐसे as hot कुत्तो और hamburgers.
German American celebrations are held throughout the country, one of the most well-known being the German-American Steuben परेड in नई यॉर्क नगर, आयोजित प्रत्येक तीसरा शनिवार in सितंबर.
There are also major annual कार्यक्रम in शिकागो, सिनसिनाटी, मिल्वौकी, पिट्सबर्ग, St. Louis and other cities.
Like many other immigrants that came to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming क्रमांक of लोगों of जर्मनी or आंशिक German descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान 's आधारभूत उद्देश्य और guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान होता achieve as it pertains to सब of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
The इतिहास of the अंतरजाल began साथ the development of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल उपकरण थी संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड शोध Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, cyclades, मेरिट संजाल, tymnet, और telenet, यहूद विकसित in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols.
The arpanet in particular led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल लिये internetworking, in जिससे multiple separate networks could be joined together into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत, और नतीजतन, the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
अभिगम to the arpanet थी विस्तारित in 1981 जब the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास ( nsf ) विकसित the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
वाणिज्यिक Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, removing the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स, और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ इसके चर्चा forums, ब्लॉग, सोशल networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in ऐतिहासिक शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51 % by 2000, and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever वृहद amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and social networking.
Southwest Airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline and the world 's largest low-cost वाहक, headquartered in डलास, टेक्सास.
It was established in 1967 and adopted its वर्तमान नाम in 1971.
The airline has more than 46,000 कर्मचारी और operates अधिक than 3,400 flights per day.
As of June 5, 2011, it carries the सबसे घरेलू यात्री of any U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, Southwest Airlines has scheduled service to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 states and Puerto Rico.
Southwest Airlines has solely संचालित बोइंग 737s, मगर लिये a few सालो in the 1970s and 1980s, when it operated Boeing 727s.
As of अगस्त 2012, दक्षिणपश्चिम is the largest ऑपरेटर of the 737 worldwide with over 550 in service, each operating an average of six flights per day.
in may 2011, the एयरलाइन acquired airtran एयरवेज़, साथ संयोजन of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the कम्पनी थी जारी a single operating certificate, technically becoming one airline.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager शुभारम्भ in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company.
हालांकि संस्थापित as a लोकल बियर in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया, it was marketed aggressively and eventually became a national product.
The brand was sold to anheuser-busch of st. लुई, मिसौरी, in mid 2006, which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born Joseph aloisius ratzinger on 16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is पोप emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He served as Pope इससे 2005 to 2013.
In that स्थिति, he थी both the leader of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City State.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 April 2005, and took कब्ज़ा of उसके गिरजाघर, the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran, on 7 may 2005.
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian by the लेट 1950s और थी नियुक्त a पूरा प्राध्यापक in 1958.
After a long career as an academic, serving as a professor of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg, where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and freising और कार्डिनल by पोप पॉल vi in 1977, an असामान्य प्रमोशन लिये किसी साथ little pastoral experience.
In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation लिये the doctrine of the आस्था, एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as pope, he was also डीन of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स, and as such, the primus inter pares among the cardinals.
prior to बनने पोप, he थी `` a प्रमुख फिगर on the वेटिकन स्टेज लिये a क्वार्टर of a सदी '' as `` एक of the सबसे आदरणीय, influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants.
He was originally a liberal theologian, but adopted रूढ़िवादी दृश्य बाद 1968.
His सफल कृतियाँ बचाव परंपरागत Catholic doctrine and values.
During his papacy, बेनेडिक्ट xvi advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of objective सच्चाई, और the denial of moral सच्चाई in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century.
He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an समझना of परमेश्वर 's redemptive love.
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions including elevating the tridentine Mass to a more prominent position.
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, viewing the use of beauty as a पाथ to the पवित्र, प्रचारित the उपयोग of लैटिन, और reintroduced traditional papal garments, for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
He has been वर्णित as `` the प्रमुख बौद्धिक फ़ोर्स in the Church '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen आज और confidantes of him, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 February 2013, Pope Benedict घोषित उसके इस्तीफा in a वाक in लैटिन पहले the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` lack of strength of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
His resignation became प्रभावी on 28 February 2013.
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, और the पहला to do so on उसके अपना पहल चूंकि पोप celestine v in 1294.
As pope emeritus, बेनेडिक्ट retains the style of His Holiness, and the title of Pope, and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white.
He was succeeded by Pope फ्रांसिस on 13 कूच 2013, और he स्थानांतरित into the newly संवर Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
जेब stereoscope with original test image.
Used by military to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs.
View of Boston, c. 1860 ; an जल्दी stereoscopic कार्ड लिये देखने a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station देखने apparatus और sets of stereo slides.
patented by A. Fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र, पेंटिंग by याक़ूब Spoel, before 1868.
A very जल्दी चित्रण of people using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3d इमेजिंग ) is a तकनीक लिये बनाना or बढ़ाना the illusion of depth in an image by means of stereopsis for binocular vision.
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` कड़, ठोस '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to see ''.
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset बिंब separately to the बाएँ और सही eye of the viewer.
These two-dimensional बिंब हैं तब संयुक्त in the brain to give the perception of 3D depth.
This technique is distinguished from 3D प्रदर्शक कि प्रदर्शक an चित्र in तीन पूरा dimensions, allowing the observer to increase information about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by head and eye movements.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. October 19, 1735 ) – July 4, 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ), having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States.
An अमरीकी founding पिता, he थी a statesman, diplomat, and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः seminal विचार, दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public फिगर in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय Congress, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776, और थी इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the कॉंग्रेस.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, और थी जिम्मेदार for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts संविधान in 1780, जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले Thoughts on Government, influenced American political thought.
One of his greatest roles थी as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans, as well as the dominant faction in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by उसके कड़वा दुश्मन Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the विवादास्पद एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों, और निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी his peaceful resolution of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
in 1800, एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He later resumed उसके दोस्ती with Jefferson.
He and his wife, Abigail Adams, founded an accomplished family लकीर of राजनेता, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी Adams, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times, though his योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as मनाये as those of other Founders.
Adams was the पहला u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the building that eventually became known as the White House.
The United राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently featured on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष Building is featured on the reverse.
( हैमिल्टन is एक of दो non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is एक of तभी चार लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर. )
All $ 10 बिल्स जारी today are Federal Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 bill in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to पहनें.
Approximately 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the बाएँ, लकिन थी used only for intra-government transactions ).
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner XL performing a high-speed फेरे.
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a jet of water ejected इससे the वापस of the शिल्प.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the नाव, a jetboat draws the जल इससे अंतर्गत the नाव into a पंप अंदर the नाव, तब expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) लिये आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और उथले नदियाँ of नई जीलैंड, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the अकुशल डिज़ाइन of the इकाई and the fact that they offered few advantages over conventional propellers.
Unlike these previous waterjet developments, such as Campini 's और the hanley hydrojet, हैमिल्टन था a विशिष्ट need लिये a नोदन प्रणाली to operate in very-shallow water, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the लोकप्रियता of the जेट unit and jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it थी मिला the waterjet offered अनेक अन्य लाभ over propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा of पोत प्रकार, और as ऐसे, waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels, including passenger ferries, rescue craft, patrol boats and offshore supply vessels.
Jetboats are highly maneuverable, and many can, from full speed, be reversed और brought to a रोकें भीतर छोटी अधिक than their own length, in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is काटें, the परिचालन is turned sharply और the throttle opened again, causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water.
There is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats, though the validity of their use depends a लॉट on the प्रकार of अनुप्रयोग.
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds, up to about, but as boat speed increases beyond this, the extra hull प्रतिरोध उत्पन्न by struts, rudders, shafts ( इत्यादि. ) अर्थात् waterjets हैं अधिक कुशल in the 20-50 गांठ range ( up to ).
Also, in situations साथ बहुत विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ), the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the विशाल बहुमत of waterjet इकाई हैं संस्थापित in high-speed बरतन और in particular situations where shallow draught, maneuverability, and load flexibility are main concerns.
The biggest jet-driven बरतन हैं मिला in सैन्य use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry.
South Africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the biggest jet-propelled बरतन so दूर.
Even these german-built बरतन हैं सक्षम of performing `` crash stops ''.
Uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as सूजन of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the मध्य, pigmented, vascular structures of the नजर और शामिल the iris, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral और thorough परिक्षा by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along with urgent treatment to control the inflammation.
Eric `` e. ''
Murphy is a fictional अक्षर on the comedy-drama television series Entourage.
He is played by केविन Connolly.
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick, co-written साथ उपन्यासकार डायने जॉनसन, और अभिनीत जोकर निकोल्सन, शेली duvall, scatman crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
The film is आधारित on the स्टीफन किंग novel The Shining.
A writer, जोकर torrance, takes a जॉब as an off-season caretaker at an isolated hotel.
His young son possesses मानसिक abilities और is समर्थ to देखिए things from the past and future, such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
Soon after settling in, the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm, and Jack धीरे becomes बहकावे by a अलौकिक उपस्थिति ; he descends into madness and attempts to murder his wife and son.
Unlike previous Kubrick films, which developed an audience gradually by building on word-of-mouth, The Shining was released as a mass-market film, opening at first in बस दो शहरों on मेमोरियल दिन, तब nationwide a month later.
Although आरंभिक जवाब to the फिल्मी थी मिश्रित, बाद नाजुक मूल्यांकन थी अधिक favorable and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre.
Film director Martin Scorsese, लिखने in the रोज़ जानवर, क्रमित it as one of the 11 scariest horror movies of all time.
Film critics, film students, and Kubrick 's producer, Jan Harlan, have remarked on the विशाल influence the फिल्मी रै था on लोकप्रिय culture.
The initial European रिलीज of the जगमगाता थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the अमरीकी संस्करण, हासिल by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
आँगन कोला Bottle
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of diet soda introduced by पेप्सी in 1963.
It was created in response to Diet Rite Cola, which थी the पहला आहार कोला on the मार्केट.
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was Patio आहार कोला 's प्रवक्ता.
In 1964, Patio released नारंगी, अंगूर, और root beer flavors.
This flavor line was नहीं meant to compete साथ ब्रांड्स जैसे नारंगी Crush, but rather fill out the line.
Patio sodas were available in the cold-bottle मार्केट : किराना और mom-and-pop stores.
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the समय, bottlers यहूद regionally franchised, and related advertising was necessarily local.
In 1964, आँगन आहार cola became Diet Pepsi.
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside पेप्सी साथ the टैगलाइन `` पेप्सी either रास्ता '', जिससे replaced the स्लोगन `` Dances with flavor ''.
the छोटी जीवन स्पैन of आँगन आहार कोला makes it a great addition for bottle collectors.
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors were phased out by the जल्दी 1970s, जबकि a few बच जबतक the मिड 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a society or enterprise, or the सेवाएं और सुविधाएं जरुरी लिये an अर्थव्यवस्था to फलन.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural elements that provide फ्रेमवर्क supporting an संपूर्ण ढांचा of development.
It is an important पद लिये judging a देश or region 's development.
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society, such as roads, bridges, water supply, sewers, electrical grids, telecommunications, and so forth, और can be पारिभाषित as `` the शारीरिक components of interrelated प्रणालियों providing commodities और सेवाएं essential to enable, sustain, or enhance societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services, and also the distribution of finished products to markets, as well as मौलिक सोशल सेवाएं ऐसे as स्कूलों और अस्पताल ; for example, roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory.
In military parlance, the term refers to the buildings and permanent installations जरुरी लिये the support, redeployment, और आपरेशन of military forces.
To make it simple, infrastructure is anything कि is needed रोज, an everyday item.
A graphical प्रतिनिधित्व of the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial डीएनए.
Human genetic variation is the जेनेटिक मतभेद दोनो भीतर और among populations.
There may be multiple variants of any given gene in the human जनसांख्यिकी ( जीनों ), अग्रणी to polymorphism.
Many genes are not polymorphic, meaning that only a single allele is उपस्थित in the जनसांख्यिकी : the जीन is तब कहा to be fixed.
no दो इंसानो हैं genetically identical.
Even monozygotic twins, who develop from एक zygote, have infrequent genetic differences due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
मतभेद between individuals, भी closely सम्बन्धित individuals, हैं the कुंजी to तकनीकों such as genetic fingerprinting.
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations, with populations that are more geographically और ancestrally रिमोट tending to differ more.
Causes of differences between individuals शामिल the एक्सचेंज of genes during meiosis and various mutational events.
There are at least two कारण क्यों जेनेटिक विभिन्नता exists between populations.
Natural selection may confer an अनुकूली लाभ to individuals in a specific environment if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles under selection are likely to occur तभी in those geographic regions where they confer an advantage.
The second main cause of genetic विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची उपाधि of neutrality of most mutations.
Most mutations do not appear to have any चयनात्मक प्रभाव एक रास्ता or the other on the organism.
The main cause is genetic drift, this is the effect of random परिवर्तन in the जीन pool.
In humans, founder प्रभाव और पास्ट छोटी जनसांख्यिकी आकार ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have had an important influence in neutral differences between populations.
The theory that humans recently migrated आउट of अफ़्रीकी supports this.
The study of human genetic variation has both विकासवादी significance और चिकित्सा अनुप्रयोग.
It can सहायता वैज्ञानिकों समझे प्राचीन इंसान population migrations as well as how different human groups are biologically related to one another.
For medicine, study of human genetic variation may be important because some disease-causing alleles occur more प्रायः in लोगों इससे विशिष्ट भौगोलिक regions.
New findings show that each human has on औसत 60 नई mutations compared to उनके parents.
Apart from mutations, many genes that may have aided humans in ancient times plague humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes that allow humans to more efficiently process food are those that make people susceptible to मोटापा और मधुमेह आज.
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the नेशनल मॉल at the करदाताओं कूच on वॉशिंगटन on September 12, 2009.
The Tea पार्टी गति is an अमरीकी राजनैतिक गति कि अधिवक्ताओं strict adherence to the United States Constitution, reducing U.S. government spending and taxes, and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The movement has been पुकारा partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The movement has sponsored protests and supported राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार चूंकि 2009.
The name of the गति is निकला इससे the बोस्टन Tea Party of 1773, an iconic event in American history.
Anti-tax protesters in the United States have often referred to the असली बोस्टन चाय Party for inspiration.
References to the Boston Tea Party यहूद भाग of कर दिन विरोध आयोजित throughout the 1990s and earlier.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some रूढ़िवादी कार्यकर्ताओं of mailing चाय बैग to विधायक and other officials as a symbolic act.
The मुद्राएँ of प्यूर्टो रीको closely follow the historic development of Puerto Rico.
As a colony of Spain and the United States, Puerto Rico was granted the use of दोनो विदेशी और प्रांतीय मुद्राएँ.
Following the स्पेनी colonization in 1502, प्यूर्टो Rico became an important port, with its own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves ran खाली भीतर the सदी, the archipelago 's economy suffered.
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano, which meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold from the Viceroyalty of New स्पेन होता be भेजा to the द्वीप, as a रास्ता to provide आर्थिक support.
Between 1636 and 1637, Philip IV of Spain imposed a tax जिससे था to be सशुल्क using a revenue stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, becoming the first colony to print 8- real banknotes in the स्पेनी साम्राज्य और जिससे in the स्पेनी सरकारी 's स्वीकृति of subsequent मुद्दे.
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century, creating an आर्थिक संकट, as a परिणाम of मैक्सिको gaining its independence from Spain.
Salvador Meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the issue of provincial banknotes, बनाना the प्यूर्टो rican पेसो.
However, मुद्रण of ये banknotes ceased after 1815.
During the following decades, विदेशी सिक्के became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
On February 1, 1890, the banco español de प्यूर्टो Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes.
The bank designed four series and placed three in circulation अंतर्गत स्पेनी नियम.
In 1895, a Royal Decree ordered the production of प्रांतीय पेसो सिक्के.
On August 13, 1898, the spanish-american युद्ध ended साथ स्पेन ceding Puerto Rico to the United States.
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and issued बिल्स समतुल्य to the संयुक्त राज्य डालर, बनाना the प्यूर्टो rican डालर.
in 1902, the पहला National Bank of Porto Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner.
दो अधिक श्रेणी were issued until 1913.
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully एकीकृत into the संयुक्त राज्य ' economic and monetary system, the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury.
the पेसो और डालर have महरूम followed by अन्य समकालीन issues, including commemorative banknotes, private currency, and a quarter coin designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
निर्मित और विकसित in 1893 और introduced as ब्रैड 's Drink, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, following the किताबे of यशायाह और यिर्मयाह और preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( The order is somewhat अलग in the ईसाई Old Testament ).
it गर्भाशयी इसके नाम इससे, और रिकॉर्ड the visions of, the 6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel.
According to the किताब, the नबी, exiled in बाबुल, अनुभवी a श्रेणी of सात visions during the 22 years from 593 to 571 BC, a period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the book, are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the राष्ट्र ( अध्याय 25-32 ) ; और भविष्य आशीर्वाद लिये इसराईल ( अध्याय 33-48 ).
New ऑरलियन्स ( or, locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States.
The New orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, a larger व्यापार area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is नामित बाद orléans, a नगर स्तिथ on the loire नदी in केन्द्र, France, and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine, music ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और इसके annual celebrations and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The city is often referred to as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी River.
The city और ऑरलियन्स Parish ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of st. tammany to the उत्तर, st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट, plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद, झूठ to the उत्तर और झील borgne lies to the east.
The नेशनल जनम कंट्रोल लीग थी a birth control organization in the United States.
It थी संस्थापित in कूच 1915 by Mary Dennett, Clara Gruening Stillman and Jessie Ashley.
Its main purpose was to overturn the laws जिससे बैन contraceptives from the U.S. mails.
Campaigns were mounted in New यॉर्क, लकिन in 1919 the लीग थी disbanded और reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant neoplasm, is a broad समूह of विभिन्न रोगों, सब involving unregulated cell growth.
In cancer, cells divide and grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, और invade आसपास भाग of the body.
The कर्कट may भी स्प्रेड to अधिक दूर भाग of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream.
नहीं सब tumors are cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do not invade neighboring tissues, और do not spread throughout the body.
There are over 200 different known cancers कि पहुँचकर इंसानो.
Determining what कल्याणकारी कर्कट is complex.
Many things are known to increase the risk of कर्कट, सहित तम्बाकू उपयोग, निश्चित infections, विकिरण, कमी of शारीरिक कार्यकलाप, obesity, and environmental pollutants.
These can directly damage genes or combine with existing जेनेटिक त्रुटियां भीतर कोशिकाएं to cause the disease.
लगभग पाँच to टेन प्रतिशत of cancers are entirely hereditary.
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways, including the presence of निश्चित लक्षण और लक्षण, स्क्रीनिंग tests, or medical imaging.
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic परिक्षा of a tissue sample.
Cancer is usually treated साथ कीमोथेरेपी, विकिरण चिकित्सा and surgery.
The संभावना of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and location of the cancer and the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
While cancer can affect people of all ages, and a few types of cancer are अधिक आम in children, the रिस्क of विकासशील कर्कट generally increases with age.
In 2007, cancer caused परिचय 13 % of सब इंसान deaths worldwide ( 7.9 million ).
Rates are rising as more people live to an old age and as द्रव्यमान जीवनशैली परिवर्तन occur in the विकासशील world.
Spring स्की touring on hardangervidda, Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in जिससे the भागीदार attaches long धावक or skis to बूट or जूते on the feet and uses them to travel on top of snow.
Aside from recreation and competition, skiing has been used for सैन्य उद्देश्य और भी यात्राएं in क्षेत्रों कि अनुभव भारी snowfall.
अनेक प्रकार of प्रतिस्पर्धी स्कीइंग events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee, and the International Ski Federation.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a British economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the सिद्धान्त और अभ्यास of आधुनिक macroeconomics, और सूचित the आर्थिक policies of governments.
he निर्मित on और greatly परिष्कृत पहले कार्य on the कल्याणकारी of कारोबार चक्र, और is widely considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th century.
His ideas are the basis for the school of विचार ज्ञात as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, as खूब as its various offshoots.
In many ways, subsequent developments in 20th century अर्थशास्त्र can be viewed as either भवन on keynes ' विचार or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking, overturning the पुरानी विचार of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि आयोजित कि फ़्री बाज़ार would, in the short to medium term, automatically provide full employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity, and that inadequate aggregate माँग could सीसे to prolonged अवधि of ऊँची बेरोजगारी.
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of आर्थिक recessions and depressions.
Following the outbreak of the Second World War, Keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy were अपनाया by अग्रणी पश्चिमी economies.
In 1942, keynes थी awarded a खानदानी peerage as Baron Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex.
Keynes died in 1946, लकिन दौरान the 1950s और 1960s the कामयाबी of keynesian economics resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems कि began to पहुँचकर the anglo-american economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the दशक, और partly क्युकी of critiques इससे मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy.
however, the आगमन of the वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the संकट by राष्ट्रपतियों जार्ज W. बुश और बराक Obama of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important and influential people of the 20th सदी, commenting कि : `` उसके कट्टरपंथी विचार कि governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics Society, a निदेशक of the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड, a संरक्षक of the कला और an आर्ट कलेक्टर, a भाग of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals, an advisor to several charitable trusts, a writer, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 टेन आयतें at the एम्सटर्डम Esnoga synagogue.
The Ten Commandments, also known as the Decalogue, are a set of biblical laws relating to ethics and worship, which खेल a आधारभूत भूमिका in judaism, islam और Christianity.
They include निर्देश to इबादत तभी परमेश्वर, to रखना the sabbath पावन और prohibitions विरूद्ध idolatry, blasphemy, murder, theft, deception and adultery.
Different समूह follow थोड़ा अलग traditions for interpreting and numbering them.
The Ten Commandments appear twice in the यहूदी बाइबल, in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy.
According to the story in exodus, परमेश्वर inscribed उन्हें on दो स्टोन टैबलेट, which he gave to Moses on Mount Sinai.
Modern scholarship has found likely influences in Hittite and mesopotamian कानून और treaties, but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English वैकल्पिक चट्टान बैंड the smiths consists of चार स्टुडियो एल्बम, एक विस्तारित खेल ( ep ), one live album, ten compilation albums, twenty singles, one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade, Sire and WEA record labels.
The band was formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist जॉनी marr, बास खिलाड़ी एंडी rourke और वादक माइक joyce.
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey John छिलके, the बैंड 's डेब्यू सिंगल, `` हाथ in दस्ताने `` ( May 1983 ), failed to chart.
Its follow-up, `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ), मिले साथ नाजुक acclaim और पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by मुख्यधारा कामयाबी in 1984, as वे पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the `` कया अंतर Does It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
उनके अगला तीन singles सब पहुँचे the शीर्ष बीस of the चार्ट in the UK, helping to consolidate their previous chart success.
The अगला स्टुडियो एल्बम, मांस is हत्या ( 1985 ), पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however, the only single to be released from the album, `` That Joke Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than number thirty in the UK and their third एल्बम, the महारानी is मुर्दे ( 1986 ), पहुँचे number two in the UK.
Despite the band 's chart success, Marr left the group in August 1987 due to a strained संबंध with Morrissey.
Failing to find a replacement, The Smiths disbanded by the time their फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम, strangeways, यहाँ we आइये, was released in September that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached क्रमांक दो in the uk और became the बैंड 's highest-charting release in the United States when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200.
In early 1992, WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of the smiths और उत्पादित दो compilations – बेहतरीन... i और... बेहतरीन ii – the पहला of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released दो further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, with a further compilation, The Sound of The Smiths, released in November 2008.
Gone साथ the हवा is a अनोखा लिखा by Margaret Mitchell, first published in 1936.
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the ऐतिहासिक रोमांस novel.
However, it has been argued the अनोखा is a `` निकट मिस '' और करता नहीं contain सब of the elements of the romance genre, making it simply a historical novel.
The story is set in Clayton County, Georgia, and Atlanta दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और पुनर्निर्माण.
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation मालिक, जो जरूर उपयोग प्रत्येक अर्थात् at उसके निपटान to आइये आउट of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone साथ the हवा in 1926 to pass the समय जबकि recovering इससे an auto-crash injury that refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an editor who was looking for new fiction, पढ़ा कया वो था लिखा और देखी कि it could be a best-seller.
After Latham agreed to publish the किताब, मिशेल worked लिये another छह महीने checking the historical references, and rewrote the opening chapter several times.
मिशेल और उसके husband जॉन दलदल, a copy editor by trade, edited the final version of the novel.
मिशेल लिखा the किताब 's फाइनल पल first, and then wrote the events that led up to it.
as to कया became of उसके प्रेमियों, रहेट और स्कारलेट, after the novel ended, Mitchell did not know, and said, `` For all I know, Rhett may have found someone else who was less difficult. ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for the किताब in 1937.
the किताब थी adapted into a 1939 American film.
Gone with the हवा is the तभी अनोखा by Mitchell published during her lifetime.
Endodontics ( from the यूनानी endo `` अंदर '' ; और odons `` दाँत '' ) is एक of the दंत specialties पहचाना by the अमरीकी दंत Association, Royal College of Dentists of Canada, and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons, and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth.
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट कनाल चिकित्सा '' ), endodontic retreatment, सर्जरी, treating cracked teeth, and treating dental trauma.
Root canal therapy is एक of the सबसे common procedures.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic ऊतक, और तंतुमय ऊतक ) becomes diseased or injured, endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth.
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that चालें आंकड़ा to और इससे computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives.
SAS replaces the older समानांतर scsi ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
sas, जैसे इसके पूर्ववर्ती, uses the standard SCSI command set.
sas offers पिछड़ा संगतता with second-generation SATA drives.
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be कनेक्ट to sas backplanes, लकिन sas ड्राइव can नहीं कनेक्ट to SATA backplanes.
The T10 technical committee of the International Committee for Information Technology Standards ( INCITS ) develops and maintains the sas प्रोटोकॉल ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the संवैधानिक प्रावधान as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is one of the eligibility आवश्यकताएँ स्थापित in the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान लिये चुनाव to the दफ्तर of President or Vice President.
This requirement was intended to protect the स्वदेश इससे विदेशी influence.
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born नागरिक, और विभिन्न राय have महरूम offered over time regarding its precise meaning.
A 2011 Congressional Research सेवा रपट stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of पात्रता लिये नागरिकता by जनम, लकिन the परम् अदालत रै never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22, 1971 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल player.
He played quarterback for three National Football लीग ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the st. लुई मेढ़ों, the New York Giants, and the Arizona Cardinals.
He was originally signed by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स as an undrafted free agent in 1994 after playing college football at Northern Iowa.
Warner would go on to be considered the best undrafted player of all समय, following a 12-year करियर regarded as एक of the greatest stories in NFL history.
Warner first attained stardom while playing लिये the st. लुई मेढ़ों इससे 1998 to 2003, जहाँ he जीती two NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV.
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's first सुपर कटोरी berth ), और owns the तीन उच्चतम single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history.
Warner फिलहाल holds the seventh-highest करियर passer दरजा of all-time ( 93.7 ), and the third-highest career completion percentage in NFL history with 65.5 %.
in 13 करियर playoff खेल, warner बाँधने first all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5 % ), yards per attempt ( 8.55 ), and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
he भी holds the उच्चतम पूर्णता प्रतिशत लिये a single game during the regular season, at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ), on September 20, 2009, against the Jacksonville Jaguars.
He announced his retirement on जनवरी 29, 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर United States Senator from North Carolina, in office since January 2009.
Previously वो परोसा in the उत्तर Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और is viewed as a moderate member of her party.
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent एलिज़ाबेथ dole in the 2008 संयुक्त राज्य Senate election, she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election.
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the heisman ट्रॉफी or the heisman ), is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football.
it थी निर्मित in 1935 as the शहर एथलेटिक क्लबों ट्रॉफी और renamed in 1936 following the मौत of the क्लबों 's एथलेटिक director, John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College, Auburn University, Clemson University, Rice University, and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football, basketball, and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ).
The award is presented by the Heisman ट्रॉफी विश्वास in जल्दी दिसम्बर पहले the postseason bowl games.
it is the oldest of अनेक overall awards in college football, including the Maxwell Award, Walter Camp Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding खिलाड़ी, जबकि the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार और वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the बेहतरीन player, and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player.
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the बहुराष्ट्रीय सैन्य शक्तियां supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded दक्षिण कोरियाई on जून 25, 1950, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद अपनाया रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted Resolution 83, recommending that members of the United Nations provide assistance to the Republic of कोरियाई `` to repel the हथियारबंद आक्रमण और to restore अंतरराष्ट्रीय सलाम and security to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that सदस्यों providing सैन्य शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता to दक्षिण कोरियाई `` मेक ऐसे शक्तियां and other assistance available to a unified command under the United States of America ''.
Although the resolutions सुझाया the शक्तियां अंतर्गत the unc यहूद `` United Nations forces '', and United Nations itself could be considered a belligerent, in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces, which were controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded कि the शक्तियां अंतर्गत the unc यहूद नहीं in विधि United Nations troops, and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an गठबंधन of नेशनल सेना, ऑपरेटिंग under the collective right of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry ब्रिगेड arrived at Busan to join the UNC, which until then included only ROK and U.S. forces.
The 27th Brigade moved into the naktong नदी लकीर वेस्ट of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia, Belgian United Nations कमांड, कनाडा, कोलंबिया, इथियोपिया, फ़्रांस, यूनानियों, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Thailand and Turkey.
The संघ of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी provided air units which fought alongside the air forces of other member nations.
Denmark, India, नार्वे, और स्वीडन provided medical units.
Italy provided a hospital, even though it was नहीं a un सदस्य.
The United Nations Command and the chinese-north कोरियाई कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई armistice अनुबंध on 27 जुलाई 1953, ending the heavy fighting.
The armistice agreement established the Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ), consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the दो signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by Panmumjon प्रतिनिधि अंतर्गत विशेष उत्तर कोरियाई management.
Regular meetings have been stopped, although duty officers of Joint सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly ज्ञात as the युद्धविराम गाँव of panmunjom, from each side meet regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton, a Mission Vista police officer जो चालें उसके परिवार वापस to उसके बूढ़ा पड़ोस, lincoln हाइट्स, to प्रारंभ a new life and to help out his old neighborhood.
It is a dangerous place to raise a family, and through the many trials the family goes through, वे जल्द सीख कि settling in is not as easy as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope साथ प्रत्येक दिन जीवन as a गली cop in लॉस एंजिल्स, his kids try to fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors.
The show premiered January 8, 2007 on the ABC Family network with 13 एपीसोड ordered लिये the पहला ऋतु.
It was approved for a दूसरी ऋतु, जिससे premiered सितंबर 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK had been used in a वाणिज्यिक to प्रचार the दूसरी ऋतु.
To promote the तीसरा ऋतु, वे दिखाया क्लिप्स of cassie और चार्ल्स 's संबंध to the सोंग, Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up, David Archuleta.
To promote season 4, वे 're using the सोंग, हिमस्खलन by Marie Digby.
The show 's theme song was लिखा और performed by bassist स्टेनली Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard.
On January 29, 2010, एबीसी परिवार घोषित the रद्दीकरण of the series after four seasons.
A Christian denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम, ढांचा, और doctrine भीतर Christianity.
In the Orthodox tradition, churches are विभाजित प्रायः साथ जातीय और भाषाई लाइनों, into पृथक churches and traditions.
Technically, divisions between one group and another are पारिभाषित by doctrine और गिरिजाघर authority.
Issues such as the nature of Jesus, the प्राधिकार of अपोस्टोलिक उत्तराधिकार, eschatology, and papal primacy separate one denomination from another.
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 अरब सदस्यों, over हाफ of सब ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी, बनाना it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide ( although the church does not view itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
प्रोटोस्टेंट denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide, and together the Catholics, Protestants, Anglicans, and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox Churches and the assyrian गिरिजाघर of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations.
Western Christian denominations prevail in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय और its former colonies.
पूर्वी ईसाई denominations हैं represented ज़्यादातर in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and North Africa.
Christians have various doctrines परिचय the गिरिजाघर, the देह of वफादार कि वे मानना was established by Jesus Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy Catholic and अपोस्टोलिक गिरिजाघर to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and practices that they considered to be in उल्लंघन of उनके निर्वचन.
Generally, members of the विभिन्न denominations acknowledge प्रत्येक अन्य as ईसाइयों, at तनिक to the extent कि वे have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
Since the reforms surrounding वेटिकन ii, the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर रै referred to प्रोटोस्टेंट communities as `` denominations '', while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches, including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ).
There हैं however कुछ non-denominational Christians who do not follow any particular branch.
The panda ( ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from the unrelated रेड पांडा, is a भालू देशी to central-western and south western China.
It is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black patches around its eyes, over the ears, और आरपार इसके गोलाकार देह.
Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the panda 's diet is 99 % bamboo.
Pandas in the जंगली होगा occasionally eat other grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, वे may प्राप्त मधु, eggs, fish, yams, shrub leaves, oranges, or bananas along with specially prepared food.
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China, mainly in Sichuan province, but भी in the shaanxi और गांसू provinces.
As a result of farming, वनों और अन्य विकास, the पांडा रै महरूम चलित आउट of the lowland क्षेत्रों where it once lived.
The पांडा is a संरक्षण reliant endangered species.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas जीना in captivity अंदर चीन और another 27 outside the country.
जंगली जनसांख्यिकी estimates vary ; एक अनुमान shows कि there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild, while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the जंगली is on the वृद्धि.
However, the IUCN does not मानना वहीँ is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable.
जबकि the ड्रैगन रै प्रायः परोसा as China 's national emblem, internationally the panda appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely used within China in international contexts, for example the पाँच fuwa mascots of the बीजिंग ओलंपिक.
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama film निर्देशित by मार्क forster आधारित on the अनोखा of the same name by Khaled Hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan ज़िला of काबुल, जो is tormented by the guilt of abandoning उसके dost हसन, the son of his father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military intervention, the द्रव्यमान exodus of अफगान शरणार्थियों to पाकिस्तानी और the संयुक्त राज्य, और the तालिबान regime.
Though most of the film is set in Afghanistan, ये भाग यहूद ज़्यादातर शॉट in Kashgar, China, due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time.
The majority of the फिल्मी 's संवाद is in Dari, with the remainder spoken in English.
The child actors are native speakers, but अनेक वयस्क अभिनेताओं था to सीख Dari.
Filming लपेटा up on दिसम्बर 21, 2006, and the film was expected to be released on November 2, 2007.
However, after concern for the सुरक्षा of the यंग अभिनेताओं in the फिल्मी due to fears of हिंसक reprisals to the यौन प्रकृति of कुछ दृश्यों in which they appear, its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14, 2007.
The Kite Runner was released on dvd on March 25, 2008.
A HD DVD release was announced for the same date, but was canceled following the स्वरूप 's निधन.
the फिल्मी थी मनोनीत लिये the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2007.
the फिल्मी 's स्कोर by अल्बर्टो इग्लेसियस थी nominated for Best Original Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards.
the वैधता of cannabis varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस निषेध in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, विशेषकर in उत्तर America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि, जिससे governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of कैनबिस is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों, including Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of कैनबिस और replaced उन्हें साथ a नियामक शासन, भी contrary to संघीय statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others लकिन, अलावा इससे the देशों कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, उपयोग, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस, बनाना it दंडनीय by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users, with freedom from narcotic drugs as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions परमिट कैनबिस उपयोग लिये औषधीय उद्देश्य.
वहीँ हैं भी परिवर्तन in a more restrictive direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in कुछ देशों, विशेषकर in भाग of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
Loxahatchee is a जातियाँ स्तिथ in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest of royal ताड़ बीच, फ्लोरिडा और लगभग west of West Palm Beach.
Loxahatchee is भी the नाम of the पोस्ट Office that serves this area, which is under the zip code of 33470.
The name loxahatchee अर्थात् `` कछुआ river. ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian Trails Improvement District and the loxahatchee groves जल कंट्रोल ज़िला.
Lion Country Safari, a drive-through safari पार्क, is स्तिथ in Loxahatchee.
In 2006, the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा स्वीकृत incorporation of भाग of loxahatchee as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County.
The main reason for incorporating was to better protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई विकास और to बचाना the rural character of the neighborhood.
Perhaps the most rural area within a बंद निकटता to वेस्ट ताड़ बीच, साथ लॉट sizes range from 1-20 acres.
साथ साथ the acreage, it is notable लिये loose land restrictions and the native and exotic animal presence is quite notable.
Seminole Ridge High School serves the क्षेत्रफल.
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test, administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ), that is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the मौलिक आवश्यकताएँ लिये नागरिकता.
The test is उपलब्धियाँ in दोनो फ्रेंच और English, the official languages of Canada.
Renaissance Cruises, originally संस्थापित in 1989 स्वामित्व by fearnley & eger rederi in ओस्लो - नार्वे, बाद खरीदा by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War.
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, tahiti और the दक्षिण प्रशांत, उत्तरी यूरोपीय और scandinavia.
The company ceased operations on 25 September 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000 अतिथि in 2000.
While the company had been in poor financial health for quite some time, the economic decline resulting from the सितंबर 11th आतंकवादी हमले हैं credited साथ the निधन of this cruise line.
The fleet is listed अंतर्गत सूची of क्रूज ships.
It थी headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
Epithelium is एक of the चार मौलिक प्रकार of एनिमल ऊतक, साथ with connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue.
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the देह, और भी रूप अनेक ग्रंथियों.
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion, selective अवशोषण, सुरक्षा, transcellular हस्तांतरण और detection of sensation.
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '', और `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying संयोजी ऊतक, through the तहखाने झिल्ली.
Epithelia can also be organized into clusters of cells that फलन as बहिःस्रावी और अंतःस्रावी glands.
Kent E. hovind ( born जनवरी 15, 1953 ) is an अमरीकी young Earth creationist.
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to मनाना श्रोता to अस्वीकृत theories of एवोल्यूशन, भूभौतिकी, and cosmology in favor of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of उसके विचार have भी महरूम criticized by यंग Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis.
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991, and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at निजी स्कूलों और चर्च, debates, और on रेडियो और टेलीविज़न broadcasts.
Since January 2007, Hovind has been serving a ten-year थाना वाक्य बाद होने convicted of 58 संघीय रिश्तो, सहित 12 tax offenses, one count of obstructing federal agents, and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions.
He is incarcerated at the संघीय correctional संस्था at Berlin, New Hampshire.
Bride with Bindi सजा माथे
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, meaning `` a drop, small particle, dot '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil, Telugu, and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South एशिया ( विशेषकर इण्डिया, बांग्लादेश, नेपाल, श्री लंका और मॉरीशस ) और Southeast Asia.
traditionally it is a उज्जवल बिन्दु of रेड रंग लागू in the बीच of the forehead close to the eyebrows, but it can also consist of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location.
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday, नवम्बर 2, 2010, to elect the राज्यपाल of नई यॉर्क, to serve a four-year पद कि began in January 2011.
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson, निर्वाचित as लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of पूर्व Governor Eliot Spitzer, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, New यॉर्क attorney सामान्य और डेमोक्रेट एंड्रयू Cuomo defeated Republican Carl Paladino.
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the नई यॉर्क ग्रीन पार्टी to be सूचीबद्ध on the ballot for the next 4 years.
The main cast of Dragon Ball at the समाप्त of the manga.
The Dragon बॉल manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive डाल of वर्ण created by Akira Toriyama.
The series takes place in a fictional universe, the same as Toriyama 's previous series Dr. Slump, and follows the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे goku इससे बाल्यकाल to adulthood as he खोज for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls, used to summon a wish-granting dragon.
During the course of the story, he encounters allies such as Bulma, yamcha, kuririn और trunks, विरोधियों ऐसे as tenshinhan, Piccolo and Vegeta, and enemies such as Freeza and Cell.
While many of the characters are humans with superhuman strength and/or supernatural abilities, the डाल भी शामिल anthropomorphic पशु और बाद, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
The series भी शामिल depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ, साथ अनेक characters being gods that govern the universe.
250px
the comanche हैं a मैदान भारतीय जनजाति जिनकी ऐतिहासिक territory, known as Comancheria, consisted of present day eastern New Mexico, southern Colorado, northeastern Arizona, southern Kansas, all of Oklahoma, and most of northwest Texas.
The comanche लोगों हैं नामांकित in the federally recognized Comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
historically, the comanches were hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have महरूम as अनेक as 45,000 Comanches in the late 18th century.
Today, the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment numbers 15,191 with approximately 7,763 सदस्यों residing in the lawton – फोर्ट sill और surrounding क्षेत्रों of दक्षिणपश्चिम ओक्लाहोमा.
The Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is आयोजित annually in walters, ओक्लाहोमा in mid-July.
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language, a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family, sometimes classified as a shoshone dialect ; however, तभी परिचय 1 % of comanches बोलो it today.
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the Pulitzer Prize -winning अमरीकी लेखक एडिथ व्हार्टन.
It is set in the fictitious town of Starkfield, Massachusetts.
The novel was adapted into a फिल्मी, Ethan Frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American television स्टुडियो स्तिथ in the टाइम्स वर्गाकार पड़ोस of the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York.
The studio is best known as the उत्पादन घर of एबीसी न्यूज ' शुभ morning अमेरिका ( GMA ), a morning news and talk program and segments for GMA on ABC News Now.
The लास वेगास स्ट्रिप संसार of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
coca-cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton, Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th सदी.
The कम्पनी produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब बेचें, वितरित and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to major restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on अवसर, introduced अन्य कोला पेय अंतर्गत the Coke brand name.
The सबसे आम of ये is आहार कोक, साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011, coca-cola थी the संसार 's most valuable brand.
Types of bar-lines
In musical संकेतन, a बार ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of time defined by a given number of beats, each of which are assigned a particular note value.
dividing म्यूज़िक into बार provides regular reference points to pin point locations within a piece of music.
It also makes written music easier to follow, चूंकि प्रत्येक बार of स्टाफ प्रतीकों can be पढ़ा और निभाई as a batch.
Typically, a piece consists of अनेक बार of the वही लंबाई, और in आधुनिक musical संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट at the शुरूआत of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more common in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी, और the शब्द माप is अधिक आम in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी, although musicians generally understand both usages.
In American English, although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the correct use of the word 'bar ' refers only to the लंबवत लकीर itself, जबकि the शब्द 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In अंतरराष्ट्रीय उपयोग, it is बराबर सही to बोलो of बार संख्याएँ and measure numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the वही लाइनों, it is हिकमत to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. for beats only ; बार चाहिए be referred to by नाम in पूरा.
The first metrically complete measure भीतर a टुकड़ा of म्यूज़िक is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the टुकड़ा begins साथ an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the head of a piece of music ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
the 19.9 mw gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, सौर photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive सौर or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the उर्जा.
Passive solar techniques शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ हैं global.
hence the अतिरिक्त लागत of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Primary care may be provided in जातियाँ health centres.
Primary care is the health care given by a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रदाता.
Typically this provider acts as the principal पाइंट of परामर्श लिये मरीजों भीतर a स्वास्थ्य care system and coordinates other specialists that the patient may need.
Such a पेशेवर can be a प्राथमिक परवाह चिकित्सक, ऐसे as a सामान्य practitioner or परिवार चिकित्सक, or depending on the मोहल्ले, स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली संगठन, और रोगी 's discretion, वे may देखिए a pharmacist, a physician assistant, a nurse practitioner, a nurse ( such as in the United Kingdom ), a clinical officer ( such as in parts of Africa ), or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
depending on the प्रकृति of the स्वास्थ्य condition, patients may then be referred for secondary or tertiary care.
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song अंकित by अमरीकी पॉप पंक समूह yellowcard.
It was released in February 2004 as the second सिंगल इससे समंदर एवेन्यू और the third track.
It is known for bringing them into the मुख्यधारा, as it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds निकट उनके ऊँची स्कूल, डगलस एंडरसन स्कूल of the Arts, and another street mentioned in the song, Cherry Street.
The name of Ocean Avenue in jacksonville is दरअसल Beach Boulevard.
वे बाएँ उनके असली base behind when they moved to Los Angeles.
The song was featured on the Much म्यूज़िक संकलन एल्बम Big Shiny Tunes 9.
A psychiatrist is a चिकित्सक जो specializes in psychiatry.
A psychiatrist specializes in the उपचार of दिमागी disorders.
psychiatrists हैं प्राधिकृत to prescribe आयुर्विज्ञान, conduct शारीरिक examinations, अनुक्रम और interpret laboratory tests, use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World स्वास्थ्य संगठन 's ( जो ) परिभाषा of स्वास्थ्य as a राज्य of पूरा शारीरिक, दिमागी और सोशल well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, reproductive health, or sexual health/hygiene, addresses the reproductive processes, functions and system at all stages of life.
Reproductive health, इसलिए, implies कि लोगों हैं समर्थ to have a जिम्मेदार, संतोषजनक और safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of birth control ; also access to उचित स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं of यौन, reproductive आयुर्विज्ञान और क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा कार्यक्रम to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
On the other हाथ individuals do फेस inequalities in reproductive health services.
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status, शिक्षा स्तर, आयु, नस्ल, धर्म, और संसाधन उपलब्धियाँ in their environment.
It is possible for example, that low income individuals lack the संसाधन लिये उचित स्वास्थ्य services and the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health.
According to the WHO, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ of ill-health लिये women, and 14 % for men. ''
Reproductive health is a part of यौन और reproductive health and rights.
This is a list of episodes for the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck, which aired for three सीज़न on डिज़्नी चैनल इससे सितंबर 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single-, दुआl-, और quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture.
The single- and dual-core models are single- die, whereas the quad-core models comprise दो मरता, प्रत्येक containing दो cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range मार्केट, और reunified लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप cpu लाइनों, which previously had been divided into the Pentium 4, Pentium D, and Pentium M brands.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the Solo ( single-core ), Duo ( dual-core ), Quad ( quad-core ), and in 2007, the चरम ( दुआl- or quad-core cpu लिये enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology ( designed for व्यवसायों ) शामिल the dual-core और quad-core branches.
The Super कटोरी is the सालाना चैंपियनशिप खेल of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ), the highest level of professional American football in the United States, culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year.
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to identify प्रत्येक खेल, बल्कि than the साल in which it is held.
For example, Super Bowl I was played on January 15, 1967, following the 1966 नियमित ऋतु, जबकि सुपर कटोरी XLVII was played on February 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and its then-rival लीग, the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play in an afl–nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल जबतक the merger was to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each league was redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन ``, और the खेल थी then played between the conference champions.
Currently, the National फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) लीड the series with 25 wins to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ).
The दिन on जिससे the सुपर कटोरी is निभाई, अभी माना by कुछ a de facto American national holiday, is called `` Super Bowl Sunday ``.
It is the second-largest दिन लिये u.S. खाना खपत, after Thanksgiving Day.
In addition, the Super Bowl रै अक्सर महरूम the सबसे देखी अमरीकी टेलीविज़न broadcast of the year.
Super Bowl XLV, निभाई in 2011, became the most-watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम in इतिहास, आरेखण an औसत दर्शक of 111 million viewers and taking over the spot held by the previous year 's Super Bowl, which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the सबसे देखी sporting कार्यक्रम in the संसार, लगभग सब होने उत्तर अमरीकी audiences, and is second to association football ’s UEFA Champions League final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide.
Because of its high viewership, commercial airtime during the Super Bowl ब्रॉडकास्ट is the सबसे महंगी of the साल.
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the Super Bowl, कंपनियाँ regularly develop उनके सबसे महंगी विज्ञापन for this broadcast.
As a result, watching and discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials रै become a significant पहलू of the event.
In addition, many popular singers and musicians have performed during the event 's pre-game और मध्यांतर ceremonies क्युकी of the exposure.
Fiona is a feminine दिए नाम.
the नाम फिओना थी invented, और first used, by the Scottish poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ), author of the Ossian poems, which he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources, when challenged, he never produced ).
The name was subsequently प्रयुक्त as a pseudonym by विलियम शार्प ( 1855–1905 ), जो authored अनेक romantic works under the name `` Fiona Macleod ''.
The name has since become लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड, स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड.
The name is considered to be a latinised रूप of the गैलिक शब्द fionn, अर्थ `` श्वेत '', `` fair ''.
the नाम फिओना is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त as an anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona, although these names are otherwise unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the authentic स्कॉटिश गैलिक feminine नाम fionnghal साथ फिओना.
The name Fiona is rising in लोकप्रियता विशेषकर in जर्मनी -speaking countries.
Fiona थी the 49th most popular name for baby girls born in 2008 in Germany.
Fiona was tied for third प्लेस in the रैंकिंग of सबसे लोकप्रिय names for baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the United States in 2008, जहाँ it रै क्रमित among the शीर्ष 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for girls of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in New York City, where Fiona ranked as the ninth most लोकप्रिय नाम लिये लड़कियों इससे those समूह in 2007.
Many languages are used, or historically have महरूम प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त States.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त भाषा is English.
There are भी अनेक भाषाएं स्वदेशी to North America or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or अन्य भाग of the संसार मेक up a विशाल portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; अनेक languages, including creoles and sign languages, have also developed in the United States.
लगभग 337 भाषाएं are spoken or signed by the population, of which 176 are indigenous to the area.
Fifty-two languages formerly spoken in the देश 's territory हैं now extinct.
The variety of अंग्रेज़ी बोला in the संयुक्त States is known as American English.
English is the de facto national language of the United States, with 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother जीभ, और कुछ 95 % claiming to बोलो it `` खूब '' or `` बहुत well ''.
However, no आधिकारिक भाषा exists at the federal level.
There have been several प्रस्ताव to मेक अंग्रेज़ी the नेशनल भाषा in amendments to immigration reform bills, but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial स्तर, साथ कुछ राज्य mirroring the संघीय नीति of adopting no आधिकारिक भाषा in a de jure क्षमता, अन्य adopting English alone, others officially adopting English as well as local languages, and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
Spanish is the second सबसे आम भाषा in the देश, and is spoken by over 12 % of the population.
The संयुक्त राज्य holds the संसार 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking population, outnumbered only by Mexico, Spain, Colombia, and Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United States, long-established spanish-speaking समुदायों coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of more recent Hispanophone immigrants.
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in अंग्रेज़ी, nearly सब second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently, while only about half still speak Spanish.
According to the 2000 US census, people of German ancestry make up the largest single जातीय समूह in the संयुक्त राज्य, and the German language ranks fifth.
Italian, Polish, and French are still widely spoken among populations descending from immigrants from those देशों in the जल्दी 20th सदी, लकिन the उपयोग of ये भाषाएं is dwindling as the older generations die.
Russian is also बोला by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each in the United States, almost entirely भीतर हाल अप्रवासी populations.
Both भाषाएं, साथ साथ the किस्में of the चाइनीज भाषा, जापानी, and Korean, are now used in elections in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
Native American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the देश, लकिन ये populations हैं अवरोहण, और the भाषाएं हैं लगभग never widely used outside of reservations.
Hawaiian, although having few देशी अध्यक्षों, is an आधिकारिक भाषा साथ साथ English at the state level in Hawaii.
The state सरकारी of louisiana offers सेवाएं and documents in French, as does New Mexico in Spanish.
besides अंग्रेज़ी, स्पेनी, फ्रेंच, जर्मनी, navajo और अन्य देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं, सब अन्य भाषाएं हैं प्रायः learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education.
1990 's Pontiac Grand Am Sedan फेंडर और क्वार्टर फलक
On an automobile, a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known in British English ) is usually considered the body panel which goes between the पश्च द्वार और the ट्रंक और typically wraps around the व्हील खूब ; however, the समान सामने खण्ड फेंडर ( गाडी ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; हालांकि, इस varies with different makes and models.
A क्वार्टर फलक is typically a welded on component of the uni-body structure or Monocoque.
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter फलक typically requires it to be काटें बंद the गाडी और a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
due to इस ऊँची राशि of specialized मजदूर, a क्वार्टर panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface.
shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop ; abbreviated, in print only, Shrops ) is a county in the West Midlands region of England.
It borders Wales to the वेस्ट, चेशायर to the उत्तर, staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south.
A unitary authority ( shropshire परिषद ) थी निर्मित on 1 अप्रैल 2009, लेने over इससे the previous county council and 5 district councils, and covers most of the county.
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has been a पृथक एकात्मक प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 लकिन continues to be शामिल in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury, which is culturally and historically important and is located in the centre of the county ; Telford, a new town in the east which was constructed around a क्रमांक of पुरानी कस्बों, सबसे notably वेलिंगटन, dawley और madeley, जिससे is आज the सबसे populous ; और oswestry in the north-west, bridgnorth बस to the दक्षिण of telford, और Ludlow in the south.
The काउंटी रै अनेक further मार्केट कस्बों, सहित whitchurch in the north, Newport just to the north-east of Telford, and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county.
The Ironbridge gorge क्षेत्रफल is a युनेस्को संसार विरासत Site, covering Ironbridge, Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, other notable historic industrial sites located around the county, ऐसे as at shrewsbury, broseley, snailbeach और highley as खूब as the Shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire Hills Area of बकाया प्राकृतिक सौंदर्य covers about a quarter of the county, mainly in the south.
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties, with the जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of the shropshire परिषद क्षेत्रफल होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in the काउंटी, हालांकि the उच्चतम पहाड़ियाँ are the Clee Hills, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
wenlock किनारे is another significant geographical and geological landmark.
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's, Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National प्रकृति आरक्षित, एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और बेहतरीन preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, Great Britain 's longest river, runs through the काउंटी, exiting into वॉस्टरशायर via the Severn Valley.
shropshire is landlocked, और साथ an क्षेत्रफल of, is इंग्लैण्ड 's largest inland county.
The काउंटी पुष्प is the round-leaved sundew.
For eurostat उद्देश्य, the काउंटी ( less the unitary district of Telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ), together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of staffordshire, comprise the `` shropshire और Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009, इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर, साइमन Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five वर्ण : roommates शेल्डन कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter, दो caltech physicists ; पैनी, a वेट्रेस और aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), जो joins the समूह बाद होने matched to शेल्डन on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; और कॉमिक किताब store-owner, स्टुअर्ट खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in a small group of episodes.
The A-Team is an American action-adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, कार्यशील इससे 1983 to 1987, परिचय a fictional समूह of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune, while on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit ``.
A विशेषता फिल्मी आधारित on the श्रेणी was released by 20th Century Fox on June 11, 2010.
A comic book series, A-Team : Shotgun Wedding, began कूच 9, 2010.
Diana प्रिंस is a fictional अक्षर appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics.
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as the civilian and secret पहचान of the सुपरहीरो Wonder Woman.
the अक्षर थी निर्मित by Charles Moulton and Harry G. Peter.
Wat Phra kaew, बैंकॉक, Thailand
There is no official state religion in the थाई संविधान, जिससे guarantees धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता लिये सब Thai citizens, though the king is required by law to be Buddhist.
According to the last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are बौद्धों of the थेरवाद परंपरा.
Muslims are the दूसरी largest धार्मिक group in Thailand at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat and part of Songkhla Chumphon have प्रबल मुस्लिम populations, consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay.
The southern tip of Thailand is ज़्यादातर जातीय malays.
ईसाइयों, मुख्यतः catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A small but influential जातियाँ of सिखों in थाईलैंड और कुछ हिन्दुओं also live in the country 's cities, and are heavily engaged in retail commerce.
There is भी a छोटी यहूदी community in Thailand, dating back to the 17th century.
Since 2001, Muslim activists, generally described by the Thai government as आतंकवादी or separatists, have rallied विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल सरकारी क्युकी of alleged corruption and ethnic bias on the part of officials.
Thailand 's Department of Religion, currently under the Ministry of Culture, is formally जिम्मेदार लिये the पंजीकरण of धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड url_http जिससे hold properties through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, साथ साथ the आव्रजन पुलिस, over the कार्य permits of प्रचारकों जो हैं `` प्रवासी religious workers '' of all religions.
A value added tax ( VAT ) is a रूप of खपत tax.
From the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the खरीदार, it is a tax on the purchase price.
From that of the seller, it is a tax only on the value added to a product, सामग्री, or सेवा, इससे an हिसाब पाइंट of दृश्य, by इस stage of its manufacture or distribution.
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between these two amounts, and retains the बाकी लिये themselves to ऑफसेट the कर वे था previously paid on the inputs.
The value added to a product by or with a कारोबार is the बिक्री दाम चार्ज to इसके ग्राहक, ऋण the cost of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a बिक्री कर in कि ultimately तभी the समाप्त उपभोक्ता is taxed.
It differs from the sales tax in that, with the latter, the कर is एकत्रित और remitted to the government only once, at the point of purchase by the end consumer.
With the VAT, collections, remittances to the government, और क्रेडिट लिये कर already सशुल्क occur प्रत्येक समय a कारोबार in the supply chain purchases products.
A referee कॉलिंग a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or उसके स्टिक ऊपर the ऊँचाई of the कन्धों or ऊपर the क्रॉस बार of a hockey goal.
इस can परिणाम in a stoppage of play or in a penalty.
In the नियम of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग, high-sticking is defined as a penalty in Rule 60 and as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80.
A stoppage in play results if a ऊँची स्टिक आता in सम्पर्क साथ the पक और the टोली who touched it regains control of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a player touches the puck with a high स्टिक और the opposing टोली gains control of the puck.
If the puck goes into the opposing net बाद coming into सम्पर्क साथ a ऊँची स्टिक, the goal is disallowed.
The level at which a stick is माना too ऊँची लिये a लक्ष्य is the crossbar of the net.
However, if a player knocks the पक into उसके अपना जाल साथ a ऊँची stick, the goal is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another player with a high stick.
The player is given a minor penalty unless his high stick caused an चोट, in जिससे मामला the रेफरी has the option to assess a double-minor, major or match penalty.
It is the रेफरी 's discretion जिससे दंड to assess : the नियम काल्स लिये a दोगुना minor for an accidental injury, or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ).
Injury is प्रायः decided by the ऊँची स्टिक causing bleeding, but the presence of blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the referee determines that the चोट sustained थी sufficient to वारंट a double-minor penalty.
Typical modern memory card reader, संगत साथ अनेक आम स्वरुप
A memory card reader is a device, typically having a USB interface, for accessing the data on a memory card ऐसे as a compactflash ( cf ), Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
Most card पाठक भी प्रस्ताव लिखें काबिलियत, and together with the card, this can function as a pen drive.
Some printers and personal कंप्यूटर have a built-in card reader.
A multi card reader is used for communication साथ अधिक than एक प्रकार of फ्लैश memory card.
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory capacity, but are able to accept अनेक प्रकार और शैलियाँ of मेमोरी ताश.
The number of संगत मेमोरी ताश varies इससे reader to reader and can include more than 20 different types.
The number of अलग मेमोरी ताश कि a मल्टी कार्ड रीडर can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted, such as 35-in-1.
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the कार्ड स्लॉट : सिंगल कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 1x sd-only ), मल्टी कार्ड रीडर ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g. 4x SD only ).
Some kinds of memory cards with their अपना usb कृत्यों do नहीं need the card reader, such as the Intelligent Stick memory card, which can plug directly into a USB slot.
The USB यंत्र क्लास प्रयुक्त is 0x08.
धमकाना is हानिकारक to students ' well-being and development.
Bullying is the use of फ़ोर्स or coercion to abuse or intimidate others.
The behavior can be habitual और involve an असंतुलन of social or physical power.
It can include verbal harassment or threat, physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular पीड़ितों, शायद on grounds of रेस, धर्म, लिंग, कामुकता, or ability.
If bullying is किया by a समूह, it is पुकारा mobbing.
The victim of धमकाना is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
Bullying can be पारिभाषित in अनेक different ways.
The UK currently has no legal definition of धमकाना, जबकि कुछ u.S. राज्य have कानून against it.
Bullying consists of three basic types of abuse – emotional, मौखिक, और physical.
It typically involves हल्का विधि of coercion such as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to more complex धमकाना in जिससे the बुली may have एक or अधिक `` lieutenants '' जो may seem to be willing to assist the प्राथमिक bully in his or her bullying activities.
Bullying in school और the कार्यस्थल is also referred to as peer abuse.
Robert W. Fuller रै analyzed धमकाना in the context of rankism.
A धमकाना संस्कृति can develop in कोई context in which human beings interact with each other.
This includes school, church, family, the कार्यस्थल, घर, और पड़ोस.
Happy slapping in the Instituto क्षेत्रीय federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura Bush and Rae leigh bradbury ( formerly लापता ) on अप्रैल 4, 2007, in ऑस्टिन, टेक्सास, बाद the 8-year-old introduced mrs. बुश during announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a result of an AMBER चेतावनी जब वो थी 8 सप्ताह old in November 1998.
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction आपात ( वही कोड : cae ) is a चाइल्ड abduction चेतावनी प्रणाली originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing : Broadcasting Emergency Response, named for Amber hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted और murdered in आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in जॉर्जिया, `` लेवी 's कॉल '' ( नामित बाद लेवी frady ) ; in हवाई, `` maile एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( बाद Maile Gilbert ) ; and Arkansas, `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ).
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations, Internet radio, satellite radio, television stations, and cable TV by the Emergency Alert प्रणाली और noaa मौसम रेडियो ( जहाँ वे हैं termed `` चाइल्ड abduction आपात '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition signs, the LED billboards which are located outside of newer Walgreens locations, along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard कंपनियाँ ऐसे as साफ Channel Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google और फेसबुक to रिले सूचना regarding an AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic.
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS संदेश can विज़िट बेतार एम्बर चेतावनियाँ, जिससे हैं offered by विधि as फ़्री संदेश.
In some states, the display scrollboards in सामने of लॉटरी terminals are also used.
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police organization ( in many मामले, the राज्य पुलिस or राजमार्ग पैट्रोल ) which investigates each of the abductions.
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee, a description of the suspected abductor, and a वर्णन और अनुज्ञा थाली क्रमांक of the abductor 's गाडी, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born जुलाई 23, 1973 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री साथ whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became ज्ञात as the lewinsky कांड.
House of रात्रि is a श्रेणी of पिशाच -थीमd fantasy novels by American author P. C. Cast and her daughter Kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of zoey redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The series has been on the New York Times Best Seller सूची लिये 63 सप्ताह और वहीँ हैं over सात लाख copies in print in North America alone.
The sixth novel, Tempted, which went on sale on October 27, 2009 with a first printing of a लाख नक़ल, डाला the यूएसए आज बेस्टसेलर list that week at # 1.
In जनवरी, 2010, gezeichnet, a जर्मनी अनुवाद of Marked, reached the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list.
the श्रेणी रै so दूर बेची more than ten million books in 39 countries.
burned थी released on अप्रैल 27, 2010, और जैसे Tempted, it entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1.
Awakened, released in जनवरी, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
The श्रेणी, जिससे is प्रकाशित by St Martin 's Press is planned to include twelve books.
In 2008, plans for a film adaptation यहूद भी घोषित.
The tenth book in the श्रेणी, छुपा, was released on October 16, 2012.
The दूसरी किताब in the novellas ( जिससे दे पृष्ठभूमि on supporting characters ), Lenobia 's Vow, was released January 31, 2012.
Book eleven is currently called Revealed, and the Casts have announced कि दो अधिक novellas, neferet’s अभिशाप, नियोजित to be released फ़रवरी 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the trojan युद्ध थी waged विरूद्ध the नगर of ट्रॉय by the Achaeans ( Greeks ) after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is one of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम in यूनानी mythology और रै महरूम narrated through many works of Greek literature, most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey.
The Iliad relates a part of the last साल of the घेरा of ट्रॉय ; the ओडिसी describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a साईकिल of एपिक कविताएं, जिससे have बच through fragments.
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek त्रासदी और अन्य works of यूनानी साहित्य, और लिये रोमन poets including Virgil and Ovid.
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite, after Eris, the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन, दिया उन्हें a सुनहरी ठहराना, sometimes ज्ञात as the ठहराना of अनबन, चिह्नित `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the goddesses to Paris, who judged that Aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', चाहिए प्राप्त the ठहराना.
In exchange, Aphrodite made Helen, the most beautiful of all women and wife of Menelaus, पतन in प्रेम साथ पेरिस, जो took उसके to ट्रॉय.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband menelaus, led an expedition of achaean सैनिकों to Troy and besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many heroes, including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax, and the ट्रोजन्स हेक्टर और पेरिस, the नगर गिरी to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or बेची as स्लेव ) और desecrated the मंदिरों, यूँ कमाई the देवताओं ' wrath.
few of the achaeans लौटे सकुशल to उनके घरों और अनेक संस्थापित colonies in दूर shores.
The Romans later traced their origin to aeneas, एक of the ट्रोजन्स, जो थी कहा to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy.
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical event कि था लिया प्लेस in the 13th or 12th सदी bc, और believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, both the war and the city were widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on प्रॉपर्टी belonging to calvert ; इस अर्जी is now accepted by most scholars.
Whether there is any historical reality behind the trojan युद्ध is an open question.
Many scholars believe that there is a ऐतिहासिक कोर to the टेल, हालांकि इस may बस औसत कि the homeric कहानियां हैं a fusion of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age.
Those who believe that the stories of the trojan युद्ध हैं निकला इससे a विशिष्ट ऐतिहासिक विरोध प्रायः तिथि it to the 12th or 11th सदियां BC, often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194–1184 BC, which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa.
Anarchists have employed निश्चित प्रतीकों लिये उनके कारण, सहित most prominently the circle-A and the black flag, although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement.
चूंकि the पुनरुद्धार of अराजकतावाद around the प्रारंभ of the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization movement, anarchist cultural symbols are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine कनाल ) is a ड्योढ़ी in the कपाल कि transmits the वृहद palatine धमनी, vein, and nerve between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity.
Surface temperature of अंटार्कटिक in शीत और गर्मियाँ इससे the यूरोपीय Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
the जलवायु of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the whole of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring तापमान कभी अंकित on the ground on Earth : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station.
It is also extremely dry ( technically a मरुस्थल ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of precipitation per year.
Even so, on most parts of the continent the snow rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial बर्फ कि makes up the बर्फ चादर.
Weather fronts rarely घुस far into the continent.
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF ) with very cold, generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout the साल और no माह averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
Some fringe coastal areas have a टुण्ड्रा जलवायु ( köppen ET ) with a short summer averaging above freezing, and much higher precipitation.
Current head coach Mike Tomlin, दौरान the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has had 16 सिर कोच throughout its history.
Founded as the पिट्सबर्ग pirates in, the नाम थी बदला to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel.
Joe Bach served two separate terms as head coach and वॉल्ट kiesling परोसा तीन पृथक terms.
During the and seasons, due to the amount of players who fought in संसार युद्ध ii, the स्टीलर्स संयुक्त उनके टोली साथ फिलाडेल्फिया and Chicago, respectively.
During these seasons, Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy Neale और फिल हैंडलर, जो have नहीं महरूम शामिल within this list.
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years, the टोली 's पहला ऋतु साथ more wins than losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in.
In, under Sutherland, the Steelers निभाई उनके पहला playoff खेल विरूद्ध the Philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 सिर कोच खर्च उनके संपूर्ण पेशेवर कोचिंग careers with the franchise, including John McNally, Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll, who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of only four men to coach the same team for 23 सालो, चक noll retired in.
Noll is also the only coach in National Football लीग इतिहास to जीत चार सुपर प्याले.
Bill cowher, noll 's बदलना, coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super कटोरी xliii, जबकि सिर coached by माइक tomlin, the टोली 's current head coach.
In criminal law, fraud is जानबूझकर deception बना लिये निजी लाभ or to क्षति another individual ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a crime and a civil law violation, हालांकि the विशिष्ट दण्ड विधि परिभाषा varies by विधिक क्षेत्राधिकार.
defrauding people or entities of money or valuables is a common purpose of fraud.
A hoax also involves deception, but without the इरादे of लाभ or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a रक्षा in a सिविल कार्रवाई लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध or specific performance of a contract.
Fraud is a basis for equitable क्षेत्राधिकार.
Passover, or pesach ( इससे : in यहूदी, यहूदी ), tiberian :, आधुनिक यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah, pesakh, यहूदी : peysekh, Paysakh, Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival.
Historically, together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) और sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ), passover is एक of the तीन यात्राएं त्यौहार ( shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem.
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to माउंट gerizim, लकिन तभी men participate in public worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts लिये either सात दिनों ( in इसराईल ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk, thus the first day of Passover only begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of nisan और ends at संध्या of the 15th दिन of the month of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence साथ the passover seder जब the 15th of Nisan has begun.
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover takes place in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the माह of [ the ] वसन्त '' ( בחדש האביב ).
It is one of the सबसे widely observed Jewish holidays.
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of उनके मुक्ति over 3,300 सालो पहले by परमेश्वर इससे गुलामी in ancient Egypt that was ruled by the Pharaohs, and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses.
It commemorates the स्टोरी of the exodus as वर्णित in the यहूदी बाइबल विशेषकर in the Book of Exodus, in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the narrative of the Exodus, the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting टेन plagues upon the प्राचीन उन्होंने पहले the pharaoh होता रिलीज उसके israelite स्लेव ; the दसवाँ और worst of the plagues थी the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The israelites यहूद instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of उनके घरों साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered spring lamb and, upon seeing this, the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes, hence the name of the holiday.
There is some बहस over जहाँ the पद is actually derived from.
When the Pharaoh freed the israelites, it is कहा कि वे बाएँ in ऐसे a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
In commemoration, for the अवधि of passover no leavened ब्रैड is खाया, लिये जिससे कारण it is पुकारा `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread ''.
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened bread ) is eaten during passover और it is a प्रतीक of the अवकाश.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य इससे धरती प्रत्येक 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth, and thus the only naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear twice in a इंसान आजीवन.
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल और more spectacular, but will appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese, Babylonian, and मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity was first संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer Edmond Halley, after whom it is now named.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner सौर प्रणाली in 1986 और होगा next appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet केंद्रक और the यांत्रिकी of कोमा और टेल गठन.
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction, particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – ऐसे as जल, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data जिससे substantially reformed और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये उदाहरण it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
anti-communism is विपक्ष to communism.
Organized anti-communism विकसित in प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी, विशेषकर after the 1917 October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists अस्वीकृत the अवधारणा of historical materialism, which is a central idea in Marxism.
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that पूंजीवाद होगा be followed by समाजवादी और साम्यवादी, बस as सामंतवाद was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim that the समाजवादी राज्य होगा `` wither दूर '' जब it becomes अनावश्यक in a true communist society.
Anti-communists argue कि the दमन in the जल्दी सालो of bolshevik नियम, जबकि नहीं as चरम as कि दौरान जोसेफ स्टालिन 's नियम, थी स्टिल कठोर by उचित मानकों, citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret police, which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to दोनो साम्यवादी और फासीवाद as सर्वसत्तावाद, देखकर similarity between the actions of communist and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was जिम्मेदार लिये tens of लाखो of deaths during the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to power have tended to be rigidly असहिष्णु of राजनैतिक विपक्ष.
These opponents claim कि सबसे कम्युनिस्ट देशों have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's socialist stage of economy to an ideal communist stage.
बल्कि, कम्युनिस्ट सरकारें have महरूम अभियुक्त of बनाना a नई सत्ताधारी क्लास ( a Nomenklatura ), with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes.
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922 – 27 नवम्बर 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer.
He थी the पहला ब्लैक खिलाड़ी to खेल लिये स्कॉटिश club Celtic, and was the father of poet and musician Gil Scott-Heron.
He died in Detroit of a heart attack on 27 नवम्बर 2008.
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a species of legume देशी to ईस्ट एशिया, widely grown लिये इसके खाद्य सेम जिससे has numerous uses.
The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a पल्स by the un खाना और agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of protein for animal feeds और अनेक prepackaged meals ; सोया सब्ज़ी आयल is another product of processing the soybean crop.
For example, soybean products such as textured सब्ज़ी protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in many meat and dairy analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly more protein per acre than most अन्य उपयोग of land.
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans शामिल सोया मिल्क, और इससे the latter tofu and tofu skin.
fermented भोजन शामिल सोया सॉस, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others.
The आयल is प्रयुक्त in अनेक industrial applications.
The main producers of soy are the United राज्य ( 35 % ), ब्राज़ील ( 27 % ), अर्जेंटीना ( 19 % ), China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
The सेम contain significant amounts of phytic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
हैरिसन घाट ( born जुलाई 13, 1942 ) is an American film actor and producer.
He is famous for his performances as Han Solo in the original Star Wars trilogy और the title character of the Indiana Jones film series.
घाट is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner, John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger.
His career has spanned छह दशकों और शामिल भूमिकाएँ in अनेक हॉलीवुड blockbusters, including Presumed Innocent, The Fugitive, Air Force One, and What Lies Beneath.
At one पाइंट, चार of the शीर्ष छह box-office hits of all time included one of his roles.
Five of his films have महरूम inducted into the National Film Registry.
In 1997, घाट थी क्रमित no. 1 in साम्राज्य `` The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time '' list.
, the United States घरेलू बक्सा दफ्तर grosses of घाट 's films कुल over US $ 3.5 billion, with worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
Ford is the husband of अभिनेत्री calista flockhart.
A tube of chapstick
chapstick is a ब्रांड नाम लिये लिप बाम manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many countries worldwide.
It is intended to सहायता दावत and prevent chapped lips ; hence the name.
Many varieties also include सनस्क्रीन in अनुक्रम to prevent sunburn.
Due to its popularity, the पद रै become a genericized trademark.
It popularly refers to any lip बाम contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और लागू in the same manner as lipstick.
However, the पद is स्टिल a पंजीकृत trademark, with rights exclusively owned by Pfizer.
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom, the product 's main competitor is Lypsyl, made by novartis उपभोक्ता स्वास्थ्य, जिससे is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( बाद referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ).
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends कि परिचित वस्तुएँ जैसे टेबल और कुर्सियां हैं तभी विचार in the minds of perceivers, and as a result can not exist without being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, for physical objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be आभास `` ).
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction, an important आधार in उसके तर्क लिये immaterialism.
In 1709, Berkeley published his first major work,, in जिससे he discussed the सीमाएं of human vision and advanced the theory that the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but light and colour.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which, after its poor reception, he rewrote in dialogue form और प्रकाशित अंतर्गत the शीर्षक तीन संवाद between hylas और philonous in 1713.
In this book, Berkeley 's views यहूद represented by philonous ( यूनानी : 'प्रेमr of mind ' ), while Hylas ( Greek : 'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents, in particular John Locke.
बर्कली argued विरूद्ध सर इसहाक़ न्यूटन 's doctrine of absolute space, time and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ), published 1721.
His वितर्क यहूद a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published Alciphron, a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers, and in 1734, he published The Analyst, an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the विकास of गणित.
His last major philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल जल, और तब continues to discuss a चौड़ी दायरा of topics including science, philosophy, and theology.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th सदी ऐसे as the समस्याएं of बोध, the अंतर between प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक qualities, and the importance of language.
Qingdao ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a major नगर in पूर्वी शानदोंग प्रांत, पूर्वी चीन, with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 शहरी जिले और 4 county-level शहरों, is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010.
It सीमायें yantai to the पूर्वोत्तर, Weifang to the west and Rizhao to the southwest.
qīng ( ) in चाइनीज means `` green '' or `` lush '', while dǎo ( ) means `` island ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the पीला समुद्र, चिंगदाओ is a major seaport, naval base, and industrial centre.
It is also the site of the tsingtao ब्रेवरी.
The world 's longest sea bridge, the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge, कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of चिंगदाओ साथ huangdao ज़िला, straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas.
Qingdao is named China 's most livable नगर.
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ), or is a समूह of phylogenetically सम्बन्धित विशाल वाइरस ( designated usually MimiN ).
In colloquial वाक, apmv is अधिक commonly referred to as just `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, when a larger virus megavirus chilensis थी वर्णित, it था the largest capsid व्यास of all known viruses.
Mimivirus has a large and complex genome compared with most other वाइरस.
Mimivirus, short for `` mimicking microbe '', is so called to reflect इसके विशाल आकार और apparent Gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between the people of Mexico and the Spanish औपनिवेशिक अधिकारियों जिससे प्रारंभ on सितंबर 16, 1810.
The movement, which became known as the मैक्सिकन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, थी led by Mexican-born Spaniards, Mestizos and Amerindians who sought independence from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their colonial masters, but ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between मैक्सिकन ex-royalists और मैक्सिकन छापामार insurgents.
Crohn 's बीमारी, भी ज्ञात as crohn सिंड्रोम और क्षेत्रीय enteritis, is a प्रकार of जलन bowel बीमारी कि may affect कोई भाग of the जठरांत्र tract from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ), vomiting ( can be continuous ), or weight loss, but may भी कारण जटिलताओं बाहर the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट ऐसे as स्किन rashes, गठिया, inflammation of the eye, tiredness, and lack of concentration.
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental, immunological and bacterial कारकों in genetically susceptible individuals.
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in जिससे the देह 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली हमले the जठरांत्र tract possibly directed at microbial antigens.
Crohn 's disease has wrongly महरूम वर्णित as an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in the पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं have described it as an immune deficiency state.
There is a genetic association साथ crohn 's बीमारी, primarily साथ variations of the NOD2 gene and its protein, which senses bacterial cell walls.
Siblings of affected individuals हैं at higher risk.
Males and females are बराबर प्रभावित.
Smokers are two times more likely to develop crohn 's बीमारी than nonsmokers.
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 and 600,000 लोगों in North America.
Prevalence estimates for Northern Europe have ranged इससे 27–48 प्रति 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, हालांकि the बीमारी can occur at कोई age.
There is no ज्ञात फार्मास्युटिकल or सर्जिकल cure for Crohn 's disease.
Treatment options are restricted to controlling लक्षण, maintaining remission, and preventing relapse.
The disease was named after gastroenterologist burrill बर्नार्ड crohn, जो, in 1932, together with two other colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, described a series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an अधूरी सूची of the tallest buildings and structures by country.
The list directly includes the tallest इमारतें और structures लिये प्रत्येक देश, और where appropriate, it also points to more detailed country-specific lists.
Rough and Ready is a census-designated प्लेस in Nevada County, California, United States.
It is located west of Grass घाटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लगभग 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 963 at the 2010 census.
YouTube is a video-sharing जालस्थल, निर्मित by तीन पूर्व paypal कर्मचारी in February 2005, on which users can upload, view and share videos.
The company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and html5 प्रौद्योगिकी to प्रदर्शक a चौड़ी किस्में of user-generated वीडियो सामग्री, including movie clips, TV clips, and music videos, as well as amateur content such as video blogging, short original videos, and educational videos.
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals, although media corporations including CBS, the बीबीसी, vevo, hulu, और अन्य संगठन offer some of their material via the site, as part of the YouTube partnership program.
Unregistered users can देखें वीडियो, जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can अपलोड an unlimited number of videos.
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content हैं उपलब्धियाँ तभी to पंजीकृत users at least 18 years old.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC was bought by Google for US $ 1.65 अरब, और operates as a subsidiary of google.
Sister Act is a musical written by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त किताब सामग्री by डगलस कार्टर beane, साथ lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 फिल्मी कॉमेडी of the same name.
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage entertainment, whoopi Goldberg, and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC.
गोल्डबर्ग is भी a producer of the 2011 Broadway adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a संग्रहण of अनुप्रयोग प्रोग्रामिंग अंतरफलक ( api ) लिये हैंडलिंग कार्य related to multimedia, especially game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
originally, the names of ये api सब began with Direct, such as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
The name DirectX was coined as shorthand पद लिये सब of ये api ( the x खड़ा in लिये the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console, the X was प्रयुक्त as the आधार of the नाम एक्सबॉक्स to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology.
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued लिये खिड़कियाँ api ऐसे as direct2d और directwrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the विकास of वीडियो खेल लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ, microsoft एक्सबॉक्स, microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other software applications लिये कल्पना और ग्राफिक्स कार्य ऐसे as CAD/CAM engineering.
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX, it is common to देखिए the names `` डाइरेक्टएक्स '' और `` direct3d '' प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable शब्दकोष रूप, साथ साथ accompanying दस्तावेज़ीकरण and headers for use in coding.
originally, the runtimes were only installed by games or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 did not launch with डाइरेक्टएक्स, लकिन डाइरेक्टएक्स थी शामिल साथ खिड़कियाँ 95 OEM Service Release 2.
खिड़कियाँ 98 और खिड़कियाँ nt 4.0 दोनो shipped साथ DirectX, as has every version of Windows released since.
the sdk is उपलब्धियाँ as a free download.
While the runtimes हैं मालिकाना, closed-source software, source code is provided for most of the SDK samples.
starting साथ the रिलीज of खिड़कियाँ 8 Developer Preview, DirectX SDK has been integrated into Windows SDK.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows Vista and newer because each of these new versions was built to निर्भर upon the नई खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक ड्राइवर मॉडल कि थी introduced लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा.
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory manager supporting आभासीकरण of ग्राफिक्स हार्डवेयर लिये विभिन्न अनुप्रयोग and services like the Desktop Window Manager.
Quetzaltenango, also commonly known by its indigenous name, xelajú, or अधिक commonly, xela, is the दूसरी largest city of Guatemala.
It is both the पूंजी of quetzaltenango विभाग और the नगरपालिका seat of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It has an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 224,703.
The population is about 61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian, 34 % मेस्टिज़ो or ladino and 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) above sea level at its lowest part.
It may पहुँचें ऊपर 2,400 meters within the city.
The नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
Municipalities abutting the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango शामिल : salcajá, cantel, almolonga, zunil, el Palmar, Concepción Chiquirichapa, San Mateo, La Esperanza, Olintepeque, and San Andrés Xecul.
All these municipalities are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango, मगर सैन आन्द्रेस xecul जिससे is a part of the Department of Totonicapán.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य.
The literary history of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these were used as source material लिये a संयुक्त एपिक in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' संस्करण, तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled after its incipit, Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have बच.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version तिथियाँ इससे the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ).
fragments of लगभग दो तिहाई of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
कुछ of the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a दोस्ती between Gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, वे यात्रा to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of स्वर्ग, जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा Gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a punishment for these actions, the gods वाक्य enkidu to death.
The second हाफ of the एपिक focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death, and his quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of अनन्त जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous journey.
He learns कि `` the जीवन कि you are seeking you will never find.
When the gods created man they allotted to him death, but life they retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the एपिक, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death, because of his great building projects, और उसके खाता of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
the स्टोरी रै महरूम अनूदित into अनेक अलग languages, and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There are numerous debates over who created the first video game, with the जवाब depending largely on कैसा video games are defined.
The evolution of video games represents a tangled web of अनेक अलग उद्योग, सहित scientific, computer, arcade, and consumer electronics.
The `` video '' in `` वीडियो खेल `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
With the लोकप्रिय कैच phrase उपयोग of the पद `` वीडियो खेल '', the पद अभी implies all display types, formats, and platforms.
इतिहासकारों have भी sought to बायपास the समस्या by बजाय using the more specific `` digital games '' descriptive.
इस पद पत्ते out the earlier analog-based computer games.
This is a सूची of best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises that have sold or shipped at least 5 million copies.
Unless वरना stated, संख्याएँ indicate विश्वव्यापी इकाई बेची, ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount.
the एक्सेप्शन हैं the ones specifying shipments, which have lower precedence than others listing sales.
Franchise sales include विस्तार पैक भी हालांकि they are not considered full video games.
For best-selling व्यक्तिगत वीडियो games, see List of best-selling video games.
The sales figures given below do not include arcade game sales, which can be found at सूची of highest-grossing आर्केड वीडियो खेल.
– इस रंग indicates a sub-series of a larger video game franchise.
This does नहीं necessarily लागू लिये series that are not video game-based.
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( September 1, 1933 – September 13, 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas.
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of Texas, when she delivered the keynote address at the 1988 लोकतांत्रिक National Convention.
Richards served as the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास इससे 1991 to 1995 और थी पराजित for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
Ann Richards थी the दूसरी मादा governor of Texas.
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a सुरक्षा विशेषता शामिल in आधुनिक ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों.
It is known to be available in लिनक्स, मैक os x, आईओएस, microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is intended to prevent an application or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region.
This helps prevent निश्चित कारनामे कि स्टोर कोड via a buffer overflow, for example.
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced dep लिये cpu कि can चिह्नित मेमोरी पृष्ठों as nonexecutable, and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against निष्पादन of कोड in आंकड़ा पृष्ठों, लकिन बजाय counters SEH overwrite, another type of attack.
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ), on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP सेवा पैक 2, जबकि ठहराना introduced dep जब वे स्थानांतरित to x86 in 2006.
Example उदाहरण of दो आम futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism, जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader sense for androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic विधा of कंप्यूटर खेल, कॉमिक्स और एनिमेशन, which includes characters that show both primary sexual characteristics.
But in today 's language it refers almost exclusively for वर्ण जो have an overall feminine appearance.
In that case the term is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ), which is occasionally भी प्रयुक्त as पद लिये the works itself.
Early CAPTCHAs such as these, generated by the ez-gimpy कार्यक्रम, were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to create a distorted background and high स्तर of warping on the टेक्स्ट, might फ़ोकस on बनाना segmentation difficult by adding an angled line.
Another way to make segmentation मुश्किल is to भीड प्रतीकों साथ, as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format.
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of people to see three-dimensional वस्तुएँ.
On this image, प्रतीकों हैं drawn साथ लाइनों of different thickness to make an effect of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in कम्प्यूटिंग as an attempt to ensure कि the response is generated by a human being.
The process प्रायः involves a कंप्यूटर पूछे a उपयोक्ता to complete a simple test which the computer is able to grade.
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate लकिन मुश्किल लिये a computer to solve, but again easy for a human.
If a correct solution is received, it can be presumed to have महरूम डाला by a इंसान.
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or अंक इससे a distorted चित्र कि appears on the स्क्रीन.
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites, since a normal human can easily read a captcha, जबकि the bot can नहीं प्रक्रम the चित्र अक्षर and therefore, can not answer properly, or at all.
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated, many of them have become मुश्किल भी लिये a इंसान to पढ़ा, so चित्र captchas यहूद निर्मित in जिससे a इंसान is दिखाया a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal pictures ), which is simple for a human being to process, and therefore easy to pick, while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture, it can not easily guess the animal.
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn, Manuel ब्लम, निकोलस J. हॉपर, और जॉन langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym based on the word `` कैप्चर '' और खड़ा लिये `` completely स्वचालित पब्लिक Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart ''.
कार्नेगी mellon विश्वविद्यालयों attempted to ट्रेडमार्क the term on 15 October 2004, but the trademark application was abandoned on 21 April 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing test, because it is administered by a यंत्र और targeted at a इंसान, in कंट्रास्ट to the मानक turing परीक्षण कि is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer, explorer, conservationist, फिल्मकार, innovator, वैज्ञानिक, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र, लेखक और शोधकर्ता जो पढ़ाई the समुद्र और सब forms of life in water.
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung, pioneered marine conservation and was a member of the académie française.
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville, केंटकी, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` American icon '', it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by sales ) after मैकडोनाल्ड 's, साथ over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120 देशों और territories.
the कम्पनी is a subsidiary of Yum !
Brands, a restaurant company जिससे भी owns पिज़्ज़ा हट and Taco Bell.
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders, who began selling fried मुर्गा इससे उसके roadside रेस्तरां in कोर्बिन, Kentucky during the Great Depression.
Sanders was one of the first people to see the potential of the रेस्तरां फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा, साथ the पहला `` केंटकी fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952.
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast food industry, thereby diversifying the मार्केट और चुनौतीपूर्ण the dominance of the hamburger.
Marketing खुद as `` कर्नल सैंडर्स '', he became a legendary figure of American cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The company 's rapid विस्तार देखी it grow too विशाल लिये सैंडर्स to मैनेज, और in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John Y. Brown, Jr. and Jack Massey.
KFC was one of the first fast खाना जंजीरों to विस्तार internationally, खोलने आउटलेट in इंग्लैण्ड, Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, KFC experienced mixed fortunes domestically, as it गई through a श्रेणी of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business.
In the early 1970s, KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein, जो यहूद लिया over by the r.J. रेनॉल्ड्स खाना और तम्बाकू conglomerate, who sold the chain to PepsiCo.
The chain continued to expand overseas however, and in 1987 केएफसी became the पहला पश्चिमी रेस्तरां कड़ी to खोलें in China.
The chain has since expanded rapidly in चीन, और the देश is अभी the company 's most profitable market.
PepsiCo spun off its रेस्तरां प्रभाग as tricon वैश्विक Restaurants, which later changed its name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations such as chicken sandwiches and wraps, salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw, desserts और नरम पेय, प्रायः supplied by पेप्सिको.
Its most प्रसिद्ध उत्पाद is दबाव fried मुर्गा टुकड़े, seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices.
The exact nature of these संघटक is अनजान, और represents a notable व्यापार secret.
Larger portions of fried chicken are परोसा in a distinctive गत्ता `` बाल्टी '', जिससे has become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is famous for the स्लोगन `` उंगली lickin ' शुभ '', जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम replaced by `` Nobody does chicken like KFC '' and `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments.
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized कोशिकाएं कि वे उपयोग मुख्यतः for capturing prey.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are ज़्यादातर एक कोशिका मोटा.
They have दो मौलिक देह फ़ॉर्म : तैराकी medusae और स्थानबद्ध polyps, both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
दोनो फ़ॉर्म have a सिंगल orifice and body cavity that are used for digestion and respiration.
Many cnidarian species उपज colonies कि हैं सिंगल जीवों रचित of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' activities are coordinated by a विकेन्द्रित तंत्रिका जाल और सरल receptors.
Several free-swimming Cubozoa और scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes.
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae, लकिन कुछ omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians were for a long time grouped with ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata, लकिन increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa, a diverse group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms, and रै दोनो स्थानबद्ध सदस्यों ऐसे as hydra और औपनिवेशिक swimmers ऐसे as the पुर्तगाली Man o ' War.
staurozoa have recently महरूम recognised as a क्लास in उनके अपना सही बल्कि than a sub-group of scyphozoa, और वहीँ is debate about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves, but अनेक obtain much of उनके पोषण इससे endosymbiotic शैवाल, और a few हैं parasites.
Many are preyed upon by अन्य पशु सहित starfish, sea slugs, fish and turtles.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae, support कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे उत्पादक ecosystems, and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals are almost entirely प्रतिबंधित to गरम, उथले समुद्री waters, अन्य cnidarians live in the depths, in polar seas and in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in रॉक्स formed परिचय, और अन्य जीवाश्मों दिखाएँ कि corals may have महरूम उपस्थित shortly पहले and diversified a few million years later.
Fossils of cnidarians कि do नहीं निर्माण mineralized structures are very rare.
Scientists currently think that cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians are more closely related to calcareous sponges than these are to other sponges, and that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of अन्य cnidarians, और the सबसे closely सम्बन्धित to bilaterians.
हाल analyses have concluded कि cnidarians, although considered more `` primitive '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
The Aztec Pyramid at St. Cecilia acatitlan, मैक्सिको राज्य.
Aztec jade mask depicting the god Xipe totec.
Large ceramic प्रतिमा of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-hispanic codex fejérváry-mayer - the आग परमेश्वर xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico, particularly those groups who spoke the नावातल भाषा और जो वर्चस्व विशाल भाग of मेसोअमेरिका इससे the 14th to 16th centuries.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from Aztlan ``, a mythological place for the Nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the समय, और बाद अपनाया as the शब्द to define the Mexica people.
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( अभी the स्थान of मैक्सिको नगर ), situated on an द्वीप in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states, the acolhuas of texcoco और the tepanecs of tlacopan, who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
In other contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples, who shared large parts of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the mexica, acolhua और tepanecs, और जो प्रायः भी प्रयुक्त the नावातल language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित सब the particular सांस्कृतिक पैटर्न common for most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of एज़टेक सभ्यता : यहाँ the पूंजी of the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन, the नगर of tenochtitlan, was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco.
The ट्रिपल गठबंधन formed a उपनदी empire expanding its political hegemony far beyond the Valley of Mexico, conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica.
At its शिखर, एज़टेक संस्कृति था समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक and religious traditions, as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along with a large number of नावातल बोलना स्वदेशी allies, conquered tenochtitlan और पराजित the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City on the site of the ruined एज़टेक पूंजी, इससे जहाँ वे proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America.
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés and Bernal Díaz del Castillo ; and विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of एज़टेक संस्कृति और इतिहास लिखा by स्पेनी clergymen और साक्षर aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language, such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants.
Anderson hays कूपर ( born जून 3, 1967 ) is an American journalist, author, and television personality.
He is the प्राथमिक लंगर of the CNN news show Anderson Cooper 360°.
The कार्यक्रम is सामान्यतः ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव इससे a नई York City studio ; however, Cooper often broadcasts live on location for breaking news stories.
As of September 2011, he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated daytime talk show, Anderson Live, which होगा be रद्द at the समाप्त of the दूसरी season.
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) जहाँ प्रत्येक बैंड रै a चौडाई of 1 मानक विचलन – देखिए also : 68-95-99.7 rule
संचयी संभाव्यता of a normal distribution with expected value 0 and standard deviation 1.
In statistics and probability theory, standard deviation ( represented by the symbol sigma, σ ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists इससे the औसत ( औसत ), or अपेक्षित मान.
A low standard deviation indicates that the आंकड़ा अंक tend to be बहुत बंद to the औसत ; ऊँची standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values.
The मानक विचलन of a यादृच्छिक परिवर्तनीय, सांख्यिकीय population, data set, or probability distribution is the square root of its variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically कम मजबूत than the औसत absolute deviation.
A useful property of standard deviation is that, unlike variance, it is expressed in the वही इकाई as the data.
Note, however, that for measurements with percentage as ईकाई, the मानक विचलन will have percentage points as unit.
In addition to expressing the variability of a जनसांख्यिकी, मानक विचलन is commonly used to measure confidence in statistical conclusions.
For example, the margin of error in polling आंकड़ा is संकल्पित by calculating the अपेक्षित standard deviation in the results if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times.
The reported हाशिया of गलती is typically about twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data, and only effects that fall far outside the range of standard deviation are considered statistically significant – normal random error or variation in the माप is in इस रास्ता विशिष्ट इससे causal विभिन्नता.
Standard deviation is भी महत्वपूर्ण in वित्त, जहाँ the standard deviation on the rate of return on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment.
When only a sample of data from a population is available, the standard deviation of the जनसांख्यिकी can be अनुमानित by a परिवर्धित मात्रा पुकारा the `` sample standard deviation ''.
When the sample is the entire population, its unmodified मानक विचलन is पुकारा the `` population standard deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( ullucus tuberosus ) is a संयंत्र grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically महत्वपूर्ण रूट फसलों in the Andean region of South America, second only to the potato.
It is known there with the common name of papa lisa, but also by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( इक्वाडोर ), olluco ( पेरू ), chugua ( कोलंबिया ) or ruba ( वेनेजुएला ), among others.
The leaf and the tuber are edible, similar to spinach and the आलू, क्रमशः.
They are known to contain ऊँची स्तर of प्रोटीन, कैल्सियम, and carotene.
Papalisa were प्रयुक्त by the incas prior to आगमन of Europeans in South America.
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` धरती रत्नों '' in नई जीलैंड, by halfords Exotic Produce.
Ulluco tubers in नई Zealand
An April 24, 1851 poster चेतावनी the `` रंगीन लोगों of बोस्टन '' परिचय पुलिसकर्मियों acting as slave catchers.
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act थी passed by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस on सितंबर 18, 1850, as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
This was one of the most controversial acts of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` slave power conspiracy ''.
It declared that all runaway slaves were, upon capture, to be लौटे to their masters.
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' लिये the कुत्तो कि यहूद प्रयुक्त to track down runaway slaves.
Frank Joseph Pallone, Jr. ( born अक्तूबर 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. प्रतिनिधि for, serving since 1993.
He is a member of the लोकतांत्रिक Party.
He previously represented the 3rd ज़िला from 1988 to 1993.
trin-i-tee 5:7 is a इन्जील duo from New Orleans, Louisiana in the United States.
The group was marketed as a gospel alternative to R & B girl groups such as नियति 's चाइल्ड और tlc.
trin-i-tee 5:7 रै बेची over 2.5 million albums.
In 1998, the समूह released उनके पहला एल्बम हकदार Trin-i-tee 5:7 which debut at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts.
The एल्बम प्रदर्शित the गीतों `` परमेश्वर 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary do n't तुम Weep ''.
The album later became certified gold.
in 1999, terri भूरा बाएँ the group and was later replaced by singer Adrian Anderson.
During that year, the group recorded and released उनके दूसरी एल्बम, आध्यात्मिक प्रेम.
The album became the समूह 's दूसरी # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts.
The album contained the singles `` Put Your Hands '' और `` my देह ''.
In 2002, the group released their third album The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the शीर्ष इन्जील चार्ट.
In 2007, the group left GospoCentric रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a रिकार्ड deal with Spirit Rising Music.
In late 2007, Trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके पांचवां एल्बम T57, which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the शीर्ष इन्जील एल्बम, # 5 on the शीर्ष Christian charts, and # 12 on the Top R & B charts.
The United States federal earned income tax credit or earned income क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable कर क्रेडिट लिये low- और medium-income individuals और युगल, primarily for those who have qualifying children.
When the क्रेडिट exceeds the राशि of कर owed, it परिणाम in a tax refund to those who claim the credit.
This credit is provided to ऑफसेट the बोझ of सोशल सुरक्षा कर and also to promote an incentive to work.
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ), the आयु, संबंध, और साझा रेसिडेंसी आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be मिले, as well as some other requirements.
U.S. tax forms 1040ez, 1040a, or 1040 can be used to claim EIC without qualifying children.
To claim the credit with qualifying children, 1040a or 1040 जरूर be प्रयुक्त, as खूब as attaching Schedule EIC.
EIC phases in slowly, has a medium-length plateau, and तब phases आउट अधिक धीरे than it phased in.
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying चाइल्ड ), it is सदा अस्तबलों to have एक अधिक डालर of वास्तविक सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि technically, चूंकि the eic तालिका चालें by पचास dollar increments, it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
For कर साल 2011, the अधिकतम eic लिये a सिंगल person or couple filing without qualifying children was $ 464.
The maximum EIC with one qualifying चाइल्ड थी $ 3,094, साथ दो children थी $ 5,112, and with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
These amounts हैं indexed annually for inflation.
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the United States regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing eic होगा बेहतर पता a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a list of halftime shows held at the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप खेल, the Super Bowl.
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition, the Super Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental कड़ी to पॉप संस्कृति, which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest.
In most years since the mid-1980s, the halftime show of the Super Bowl has featured popular रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों और अन्य well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased television viewers दौरान और बाद the halftime show.
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in American television annually साथ over 100 लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य alone.
Musical genres over the सालो have represented a broad range of music types, including pop, rock, classic rock, country, hip hop, rap, blues, and soul.
In some सालो, छोटी skits or drama scenes are acted out on a stage.
the प्रदर्शन समूह up साथ लोगों रै performed at the most Super Bowl halftime shows, starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen ratings, Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in इतिहास, साथ 114 लाख दर्शक or परिचय 3 लाख अधिक than the वास्तविक game.
Beyonce 's 2013 मध्यांतर दिखाएँ प्रदर्शन was the second most viewed show in history.
It is listed on the Guinness World Records as the largest tv दर्शक लिये a सुपर कटोरी half-time प्रदर्शन.
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual अंतरराष्ट्रीय इवेंट मनाये on 19th नवम्बर.
Inaugurated in 1999 in त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो, the दिन और इसके कार्यक्रम ढूँढें support from a variety of individuals and groups in Australia, the Caribbean, North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, Director of Women and Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said of IMD, `` This is an excellent idea and would give some लिंग संतुलन. ''
She added that UNESCO was looking आगे to cooperating साथ the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन शामिल focusing on मेन 's और boys ' health, improving gender relations, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an occasion to highlight पक्षपात विरूद्ध मेन और लड़कों और to celebrate उनके उपलब्धियाँ और योगदान, in particular for their contributions to community, family, marriage, and child care.
The broader and ultimate aim of the इवेंट is to प्रचार मौलिक humanitarian values.
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, ज़िम्बाब्वे, बोत्सवाना, australia, बुरुंडी, हंगेरियाई, आयरलैंड, आइल of man, घाना, कनाडा, डेनमार्क, नार्वे, ऑस्ट्रिया, बोस्निया और Herzegovina, Ukraine, France, Italy, Pakistan, Cuba, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Grenada and Cayman Islands, on 19 November, and global support for the celebration is broad.
घाटी गाँव ParkValley
Village is a district in the San Fernando Valley region of लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The median age of its population, at 36, is `` बूढ़ा लिये the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स. '' और इसके औसत household आकार of दो लोगों is low, compared to other parts of the city.
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of changes that occur in इंसान beings over the कोर्स of their life span.
Originally concerned with infants and children, the field has विस्तारित to शामिल किशोरावस्था, वयस्क विकास, aging, and the entire life span.
This field examines change across a broad range of topics सहित मोटर कौशल और अन्य psycho-physiological प्रक्रियाओं ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving, moral understanding, and conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social, personality, and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation.
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to which development occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like development, or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience.
Many researchers are interested in the interaction between personal characteristics, the individual 's बर्ताव, और पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित सोशल कॉन्टेक्स्ट, और उनके प्रभाव on विकास ; अन्य take a more narrowly-focused approach.
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields, including : educational psychology, child psychopathology, और forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other basic research fields in psychology including social psychology, cognitive psychology, ecological मनोविज्ञान, और तुलनात्मक psychology.
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional अक्षर जो पहला appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी sitcom सब in the परिवार.
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of माइक stivic ( निभाई by रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया stivic ( निभाई by Sally Struthers ), and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode of All in the परिवार जिससे aired in दिसम्बर 1975.
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time, Joey had been निभाई सबसे प्रायः by प्रत्यावर्ती जुड़वा जेसन और जस्टिन draeger ), the जॉय stivic अक्षर अगला appeared on the सब in the परिवार spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the character was played by child कर्ता लंड billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age.
With ग्लोरिया अभी अलग इससे माइक, वो लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's Place with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home. ''
In this एपीसोड, जॉय थी निभाई by क्रिस्टोफर Johnston.
Joey Stivic was a regular अक्षर on the सब in the परिवार spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983.
On this series, in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had moved to Upstate New York in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an सहायक veterinarian, the भाग of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11 years, until the character बना एक पिछला रूप on 704 hauser, a short-lived 1994 श्रेणी परिचय a ब्लैक परिवार जो था स्थानांतरित into the बूढ़ा Bunker home, years after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko, an actor born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional जनम ).
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll '' ( called `` आर्ची बंकर 's पोता '' ) जिससे थी billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll. ''
The doll inspired mild विवाद at the time, and is a collectors ' item today.
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl game played on January 1, 2011, as भाग of the 2010 कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल ऋतु.
Played in Pasadena, California, the TCU horned मेंढक of the पहाड़ वेस्ट सम्मेलन defeated the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब संघ was the organizer of the game.
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor and the खेल थी officially नामित `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''.
This game marked the first time a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying सम्मेलन निभाई in, और जीती, the रोज़ कटोरी in its 97 years.
The contest was ब्रॉडकास्ट on केबल टेलीविज़न स्टेशन ईएसपीएन साथ a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ESPN Radio and XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
Coverage began at 1:30 PM ( PST ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 pm ( PST ).
This marked the first time कि the खेल थी नहीं ब्रॉडकास्ट nationally `` over-the-air '' ( स्थलीय टेलीविज़न ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl, which was the first nationally televised college football game.
The Rose Bowl Game, themed Building Dreams, Friendships, & Memories, was a contractual sell-out, with 64,500 टिकटें आबंटित to the participating teams and conferences.
Ticket prices लिये सब सीटे in the Rose Bowl are listed at $ 145.
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses सदस्यों, प्रायोजकों, नगर of pasadena निवासियों, और the सामान्य public.
The Rose Bowl स्टेडियम क्षमता is listed at approximately 91,000.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, which announced that the thirteen American colonies, then at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र राज्य, और no longer a भाग of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य.
Instead वे अभी formed a new nation—the United States of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing for स्वतंत्रता, जिससे थी unanimously स्वीकृत on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता संपादन to उपज the final version.
The Declaration थी ultimately a औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on July 4, although Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the text on July 4, Congress जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in अनेक फ़ॉर्म.
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and पढ़ा to the public.
The most famous version of the घोषणा, a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of Independence, is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
हालांकि the wording of the घोषणा was approved on July 4, the date of its signing was August 2.
The असली जुलाई 4 संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document.
The स्त्रोत और निर्वचन of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry.
The घोषणा जायज the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य by listing colonial grievances against King George III, and by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution.
Having परोसा इसके असली purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since तब, it रै आइये to be माना a major statement on human rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men हैं निर्मित बराबर, कि वे हैं endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '', containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history. ''
The passage आए to represent a moral मानक to which the United States should strive.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the घोषणा to be the न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक philosophy, and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout the world.
Chitty chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel.
The film 's script is by Roald Dahl and Ken Hughes और इसके गीतों by the शरमन Brothers.
It stars Dick Van dyke as caractacus potts और सैली Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious.
The film was निर्देशित by केन ह्यूजेस और उत्पादित by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
जॉन stears supervised the special effects.
Irwin kostal पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the म्यूज़िक, while the musical numbers were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life.
environments विषय to arid climates tend to lack vegetation and are called xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places include सबसे of अफ़्रीकी और भाग of दक्षिण अमेरिका और सेंट्रल अमेरिका.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न, जिससे is संबद्ध with the constellation Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 और 125.25 उपाधि of celestial देशांतर, which the Sun transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is फिलहाल इससे जुलाई 21 to August 9.
The United States अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican पार्टी मनोनीत लाज़िम vice-president Richard Nixon, while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, रिपब्लिकन ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर, थी नहीं योग्य लिये re-election बाद सेवारत the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote, giving उसे a विजय of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College, the closest since 1916.
This was the first चुनाव in जिससे सब पचास of the वर्तमान संयुक्त States participated.
A number of factors explain why the चुनाव थी so close.
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन gained among protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
in the समाप्त, निक्सन 's जोर on his experience carried little weight, and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign organization to win the नामांकन, सुरक्षित समर्थन, और, साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and used टेलीविज़न effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president, a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार, by बराक Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
Sherwood is a city in वॉशिंगटन काउंटी, ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त States.
Located in the southeast corner of the काउंटी, it is a आवासीय जातियाँ in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland.
The population was 11,791 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the 2010 census, the जनसांख्यिकी थी 18,205 निवासियों.
Indirectly named for the Sherwood Forest in इंग्लैण्ड, it थी पहला incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the u.S. कॉंग्रेस कि थी हस्ताक्षरित into विधि by अध्यक्ष George W. Bush on October 26, 2001.
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) कि स्टैंड लिये uniting ( और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित Tools Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th, significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of प्रज्ञा भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य ; विस्तारित the सचिव of the treasury’s प्राधिकार to विनियमित वित्तीय ट्रांजेक्शन, विशेषकर those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism, thus enlarging the number of क्रियाएँ to जिससे the यूएसए patriot act’s विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन शक्तियां can be applied.
On May 26, 2011, President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets एक्सटेंशन अधिनियम of 2011, a four-year एक्सटेंशन of तीन कुंजी प्रावधानों in the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम जबकि he थी in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps, खोज of कारोबार records ( the `` library records provision `` ), and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups.
Republican leaders questioned if the use of the autopen मिले the संवैधानिक requirements for signing a bill into law.
A house in Queen Anne style at 223 एवेन्यू a.
Snohomish is a city in Snohomish काउंटी, वॉशिंगटन, United States.
The population was 9,098 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The mayor of snohomish is karen guzak, और the City Manager is Larry Bauman.
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown, and was once known for its many antique shops when it was known as the `` पुरातन पूंजी of the उत्तरपश्चिम. ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish Historic District, जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक स्थान.
Many houses bear plaques with the year the house was built and the नाम of the परिवार or व्यक्तिगत जो originally occupied it.
Once every साल, the नगर देता टुर of the historic houses ; one of them, the Blackman House, is a year-round museum.
A general aviation airfield, घनघोर एयरफील्ड, is कम than एक मील दक्षिणपश्चिम of Downtown Snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American rock band that was formed in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, United States, in 1991.
the founding सदस्यों यहूद singer-songwriter और guitarist Dave Matthews, bassist Stefan Lessard, drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
Boyd tinsley थी added to the band as a violinist soon after the band was formed.
Moore died suddenly in अगस्त 2008 due to जटिलताओं इससे चोटों sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the flecktones रै चूंकि भर मूर 's स्पॉट as the बैंड 's saxophonist.
rashawn रॉस और टिम रेनॉल्ड्स have also become full-time touring members of the band.
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, earning the band their पांचवां लगातार number-one debut— बनाना उन्हें the second band behind Metallica to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, थी released in 2012, और भी debuted at number one on the Billboard chart.
As of 2010, the Dave Matthews Band रै बेची over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide.
The band is known लिये उनके सालाना summer-long टुर of the संयुक्त राज्य और Europe, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show.
This portion of the tour has become a stamp of dmb और रै grown साथ the बैंड चूंकि fenton विलियम्स began working with them in the early 1990s.
After twenty consecutive years of touring the band announced that it would लो the गर्मियाँ of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews Band has जीती एक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, और थी awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award.
According to Julian Bond, `` they sell out the largest arenas on Earth, but frequently give their music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A अध्याय इससे an अलिखित रोमांस is a गद्य व्यंग्य लिखा by louisa may alcott, about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work was first published in a नई यॉर्क समाचारपत्र in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.
In her account, Alcott provides the real people शामिल साथ पतला pseudonymous disguises.
Her father Amos Bronson alcott is `` abel मेमने, '' जबकि उसके संगी और जातियाँ co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott, Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts उसके पिता as dominated by his more forceful partner, and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers.
The men of the जातियाँ खर्च उनके समय in pointless debates जबकि सिस्टर आशा works इससे dawn to dusk to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at कटाई समय, जब the अनाज crop is threatened by an approaching storm.
In Alcott 's words, `` परिचय the समय the अनाज थी तैयार to house, some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
Sister Hope organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ help, three little girls and a boy, and manages to save the crop.
The little community collapses as जल्द as the मौसम turns cold, when it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his बेटे abscond to जुड़ें the shakers — हालांकि timon is अप्रसन्न to learn that life among them is `` all work and no play. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again तभी जब he realizes कि उसके परिवार needs him.
Sister Hope finds a रास्ता लिये उन्हें to subsist and persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in उसके अनोखा, प्रकाशित in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` अनुभवातीत जंगली Oats '' has been reprinted in several modern editions.
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the Sawatch Range, part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the भुत कस्बा of पावन Cross City and in Eagle County.
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face.
Under USDA Forest Service administration, the mountain was proclaimed `` Holy क्रॉस नेशनल स्मारक '' by हर्बर्ट Hoover on May 11, 1929.
The monument was transferred to the नेशनल Park Service in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the number of visitors to the पहाड़ और the आसपास `` pilgrim 's हट '' था waned, और the व्यय of full-time staff could not be justified.
This mountain has been the subject of painters, photographers and even a poem by Henry वाड्सवर्थ लांगफेलो, ( The Cross of Snow ).
The first publicly available फोटोग्राफ थी प्रकाशित in नेशनल Geographic magazine.
Thomas मोरान चित्रित the पहाड़ in an oil painting, which now is part of the collection of the Museum of the American West, part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles, California.
It is still much photographed but it is not as well ज्ञात आज as it थी in the पास्ट.
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake, directly under the east face of the peak, Tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that झूठ दक्षिण of a significant subpeak, और अनेक अन्य झीलों.
notable स्थितियाँ भीतर शामिल the dotsero volcano ( near Interstate 70 ), Vail and Aspen.
US 24 runs निकट the शिखर through Gilman.
Photochrom print of Mount of the पावन क्रॉस c. 1900.
इस चित्र is a reversed दृश्य of the mountain compared to how it actually appears.
The first recorded ascent of पावन क्रॉस थी in 1873, by F. V. hayden और photographer W. H. Jackson during one of Hayden 's geographical surveys.
however, the शिखर may खूब have महरूम ascended previously by miners or American Indians.
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by Russel keene और हावर्ड freedman of the 10th Mountain Division, then stationed at Camp Hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes, with the easiest and most common route होने the उत्तर लकीरें, जिससे involves of लंबवत लाभ over और is रेटेड YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling.
The Cross Couloir रूट फ़ॉर्म the लंबवत portion of the famous cross feature, and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent.
Mount of the पावन क्रॉस रै a इतिहास of endangering the lives of many hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar साथ the risks of प्रवेश wilderness क्षेत्रों और do नहीं लाओ पर्याप्त उपकरण and supplies to respond to emergency conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike, unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to changing environmental conditions and भ्रम regarding the surrounding लैंडस्केप, विशेषकर on the descent of North Ridge.
Thorough research and reasonable नियोजन चाहिए prevent सबसे tragedies.
Mount of the पावन क्रॉस is accessible इससे Tigiwon Road, south of Minturn, Colorado.
The हाफ चंद्रमा pass ट्रेल is the मानक रूट to the summit of Mount of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an ascent of Notch Mountain Trail provides the बेहतरीन दृश्य of the पावन क्रॉस हिम विशेषता इससे पायदान पहाड़ लकीरें.
The GSM लोगो is प्रयुक्त to पहचानो compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a standard नियत विकसित by the यूरोपीय दूरसंचार मानकों संस्थान ( ETSI ) to describe protocols for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones.
It became the de facto global standard for mobile संचार साथ over 80 % मार्केट share.
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks, and originally वर्णित a डिजिटल, सर्किट switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony.
This was expanded over time to include data communications, first by circuit switched transport, then packet data हस्तांतरण via gprs ( सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( उन्नत आंकड़ा दरों for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third पीढी ( 3g ) umts मानकों followed by चौथी generation ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards.
`` जीएसएम '' is a trademark owned by the GSM Association.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease bill to दे सहायता to ब्रिटेन और China ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act was an अधिनियम जहाँ the संयुक्त राज्य था supported its allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a कार्यक्रम अंतर्गत जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the संयुक्त Kingdom, the USSR, Republic of China, Free France, and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on March 11, 1941, a year and a half after the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय in सितंबर 1939.
This was nine months before the U.S. entered the युद्ध in दिसम्बर 1941.
Formally titled An Act to further प्रचार the रक्षा of the संयुक्त राज्य, the अधिनियम effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality.
A कुल of $ 50.1 अरब ( समतुल्य to $ आज ) लायक of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain, $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet Union, $ 3.2 billion to France, $ 1.6 billion to China, and smaller sums to other Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the u.S., और totaled $ 7.8 अरब ; of इस, $ 6.8 अरब आए इससे the अंग्रेजों and the Commonwealth.
The terms of the agreement provided कि the materiel थी to be प्रयुक्त जबतक समय for their return or destruction.
आपूर्तियाँ बाद the termination तिथि यहूद बेची to ब्रिटेन at a विशाल discount for £1.075 billion using long-term loans from the United States.
Canada operated a similar program that sent $ 4.7 billion in supplies to the संयुक्त किंगडम और the सोवियत संघ.
The United States did not charge for aid supplied अंतर्गत इस विधान.
This program was a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति, जिससे had dominated United States foreign relations since the end of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), also called sunroot, sunchoke, earth apple or topinambour, is a species of sunflower native to eastern North America, and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North डकोटा, और दक्षिण to उत्तरी फ्लोरिडा और टेक्सास.
It is also cultivated widely across the शीतोष्ण मण्डल लिये इसके tuber, जिससे is used as a root vegetable.
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known as Fort San Felipe del Morro or Morro किला, is a 16th-century citadel स्तिथ in सैन जुआन, प्यूर्टो रीको.
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in Wiltshire, England, about west of amesbury और उत्तर of Salisbury.
One of the most प्रसिद्ध साइट in the संसार, stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks.
It is in the middle of the सबसे घना जटिल of पाषाणकालीन और कांस्य आयु monuments in England, including several hundred burial mounds.
archaeologists मानना it was built anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the पहला पत्थरों यहूद उठाया between 2400 और 2200 bc, whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch, which constitute the earliest phase of the स्मारक, have been dated to about 3100 BC.
The site and its surroundings were added to the युनेस्को 's सूची of संसार विरासत साइट in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
It is a national legally सुरक्षित अनुसूचित प्राचीन Monument.
Stonehenge is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage, जबकि the surrounding जमीन is स्वामित्व by the National Trust.
Archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates कि Stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain human bone इससे as जल्दी as 3000 bc, जब the खाई और bank were first dug.
Such deposits continued at stonehenge लिये at तनिक another 500 years.
The site is a प्लेस of धार्मिक significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry.
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an सालाना कॉलेज बास्केट tournament for women.
Held each April, the Women 's Championship थी उदघाटन in the 1981–82 season.
The NCAA tournament थी preceded by the aiaw महिलाओं 's बास्केट टूर्नामेंट, which was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship program for the 1981-82 school year, as the NCAA engaged in battle साथ the संघ लिये intercollegiate एथलेटिक्स for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its स्थापित चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम in the वही बारह ( और अन्य ) खेल ; however, after a year of dual women 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
उपस्थिति और ब्याज in the महिलाओं 's प्रभाग i चैंपियनशिप have grown over the सालो, विशेषकर चूंकि 2003, when the final championship game was moved to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game.
The women 's चैंपियनशिप खेल is now the final overall game of the college basketball season.
Before कि, the महिलाओं 's फाइनल चार थी प्रायः निभाई on the शुक्रवार पहले the मेन 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament.
The final was प्रायः निभाई the Sunday afternoon following the Men 's Final Four.
The टूर्नामेंट कोष्ठक is बना up of champions इससे प्रत्येक प्रभाग I conference, which receive automatic bids.
The remaining slots are at-large bids, साथ टीमों चुनी by an ncaa चयन कमेटी.
The selection process and tournament seedings are based on अनेक कारकों, सहित टोली rankings, win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data.
Unlike the men 's tournament, there are only 32 at-large बोलियों ( as of the अगला टूर्नामेंट in 2014 ), और no play-in game.
The women 's tournament, like the men 's, is staged in a single elimination format, and is भाग of the मीडिया और पब्लिक frenzy ज्ञात colloquially as कूच दीवानगी or The Big Dance.
All 63 खेल have महरूम ब्रॉडकास्ट on television since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's टूर्नामेंट कवरेज on सीबीएस, लोकल टीमों हैं दिखाया on each channel when available, with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the most competitive contests in the rest of the country.
The rosetta स्टोन in the British Museum
The rosetta स्टोन is an प्राचीन मिश्र granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V.
The decree appears in three scripts : the अपर टेक्स्ट is प्राचीन मिश्र चित्रलिपि, the मध्य portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some नाबालिग मतभेद between उन्हें ), it provided the कुंजी to the आधुनिक understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Originally displayed within a टेम्पल, the स्टोन थी संभवतः स्थानांतरित दौरान the जल्दी ईसाई or मध्यकालीन period and eventually used as building material in the construction of Fort Julien near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier, pierre-françois bouchard, of the फ्रेंच expedition to Egypt.
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times, the Rosetta स्टोन aroused फैली पब्लिक ब्याज साथ इसके संभावित to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
lithographic नक़ल और प्लास्टर casts began circulating among European museums and scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops defeated the French in Egypt in 1801, और the असली स्टोन आए into अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा अंतर्गत the capitulation of Alexandria.
Transported to London, it has been on public display at the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय चूंकि 1802.
It is the most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the British Museum.
Ever since its rediscovery, the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries, including its transfer from French to British कब्ज़ा दौरान the napoleonic युद्धों, a long-running विवाद over the सापेक्ष मान of यंग 's और champollion 's योगदान to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to Egypt.
Study of the decree was already under way as the पहला पूरा अनुवाद of the Greek text appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, before the transliteration of the Egyptian scripts was announced by Jean-François Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before विद्वानों यहूद समर्थ to पढ़ा प्राचीन मिश्र inscriptions and literature confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text किया so as खूब, और था pervasive similarities to the demotic ( थामस यंग, 1814 ) ; और कि, in जोड to होने प्रयुक्त लिये विदेशी names, ध्वन्यात्मक characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary नक़ल of the वही डिक्री यहूद खोजा बाद, and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions are now known, including two slightly earlier Ptolemaic decrees ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC, and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV, ca. 218 BC ).
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique, but it was the essential key to modern समझना of प्राचीन मिश्र साहित्य और सभ्यता.
The term Rosetta Stone is now used in अन्य contexts as the नाम लिये the essential clue to a new field of knowledge.
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly poison arrow मेंढक ) is the आम नाम of a समूह of मेंढक in the परिवार dendrobatidae जिससे हैं देशी to Central and South America.
ये प्रजाति हैं diurnal and often have brightly colored bodies.
हालांकि सब जंगली dendrobatids हैं at तनिक somewhat विषाक्त, स्तर of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next and from one population to another.
अनेक प्रजाति are threatened.
These amphibians हैं प्रायः पुकारा `` डार्ट मेंढक '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 species, only four have been documented as being used for this purpose ( curare plants are more commonly used ), all of which come from the phyllobates genus, जिससे is characterized by the अपेक्षाकृत विशाल आकार and high levels of toxicity of its members.
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened सिरप प्रायः बना of sweetened caramelised milk.
According to chef Rick Bayless, the नाम लिये cajeta आए इससे the स्पेनी phrase al punto de cajeta, जिससे अर्थात् `` a द्रव thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked ''.
Another hypothesis is that it takes its name from the small wooden boxes in which it थी traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato, although it is भी उत्पादित साथ the परंपरागत method in several towns of the state of Jalisco, such as Mazamitla, Sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering बकरी 's मिल्क, or occasionally a sweetened द्रव, stirring अक्सर, until it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water, and caramelized.
While goat milk is the most usual base, अन्य liquids or रस may be प्रयुक्त.
In celaya, और आखिरकार the बाकी of मैक्सिको, the confection of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta, but elsewhere, the milk candy became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
it रै cousins in the अनेक भारतीय milk-based मिठाई जैसे प्रभा और the मिल्क फ़ज burfi, और in the ओपेरा फ़ज of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet, as a spread or filling for breads and pastries, such as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.
Certain liquors are added to खास व्यंजनों पुकारा cajeta envinada.
In addition, cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध साथ किशमिश, बादाम, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes, as a sweet sauce boiled and softened bas साथ मिल्क to soak the crepes, resulting in a स्वादिष्ट मिठाई.
In Mexico many brands make cajeta लकिन the सबसे आम ब्रांड is coronado.
it is भी बहुत आम to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican dessert.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was शिक्षित at चार स्कूलों in the संयुक्त किंगडम और obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews.
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile, Belize, Tanzania, और कीनिया जहाँ he रै जिया और holidayed several times.
Prince विलियम रै भी लिया Kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving साथ उसके bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and, दो सालो बाद, अर्जित उसके विंग्स by completing पायलट प्रशिक्षण at royal एयर फ़ोर्स कॉलेज Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training और गई on to raf घाटी on no. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक a समुद्र किंग ढूंढें और बचाव हेलीकाप्टर.
Prince William married his longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, कैथरीन मिडलटन, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his wedding, Prince William was created ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, अर्ल of strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
Mali is a बहुभाषी देश.
The languages spoken there reflect ancient उपनिवेश पैटर्न, migrations, and its long history.
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो 50 languages.
Of ये, फ्रेंच is the आधिकारिक भाषा and Bambara is the most widely spoken.
Altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of माली have the विधिक औकात of नेशनल language.
Sign in फ्रेंच, at a स्मारक in Bamako.
{ { infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज New Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( Vietnam )
Rogers Building, the मुख्यालय of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified पब्लिक Canadian communications and media company.
It is particularly in the field of wireless संचार, केबल टेलीविज़न, टेलीफोन, और अंतरजाल connectivity with significant additional telecommunications and mass media assets.
The company is headquartered in the रोजर्स Building in Toronto, Ontario.
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company, founded in 1925 by Edward Rogers, which started the cfrb रेडियो स्टेशन in टोरंटो, जिससे थी बाद acquired by बाहर रूचि.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, जब रोजर्स ' बेटे, टेड रोजर्स, संस्थापित रोजर्स रेडियो प्रसारण Ltd.
That company acquired CHFI that year, as well as Aldred-Rogers प्रसारण, a साझेदारी साथ जोएल aldred जिससे helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later खरीदा आउट aldred और प्रारंभ the current cable and wireless operations, known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd.
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and television media assets, as well as wireless, television distribution, और टेलीफोन सेवाएं, विशेषकर in पूर्वी और सेंट्रल कनाडा ; the दो कंपनियाँ हैं प्रायः देखी as having a द्वयाधिकार on संचार सेवाएं in उनके regions.
However, the company also competes nationally with telus लिये बेतार सेवाएं, and primarily indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service.
The company भी competes साथ a क्रमांक of other media companies in the broadcasting industry.
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer संजाल कि उपयोग the मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide.
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private, public, academic, कारोबार, और सरकारी संजाल, of लोकल to वैश्विक पैमाना, कि हैं linked by a व्यापक सरणी of electronic, wireless and optical networking technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services, such as the inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ of the संसार चौड़ी वेब ( www ) और the infrastructure to support email.
Most परंपरागत संचार मीडिया सहित टेलीफोन, म्यूज़िक, फिल्मी, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the Internet, giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ).
Newspaper, book और other print publishing are adapting to Web site technology, or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of इंसान interactions through तत्काल messaging, Internet forums, and social networking.
Online shopping has boomed both for major retail outlets और छोटी शिल्पकार और traders.
Business-to-business and financial सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect सप्लाई जंजीरों across entire industries.
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the United States सरकारी in the 1960s to निर्माण मजबूत, fault-tolerant संचार via computer networks.
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s, as खूब as निजी funding लिये अन्य वाणिज्यिक backbones, led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies, and the merger of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international network resulted in its popularization and incorporation into वस्तुतः प्रत्येक aspect of modern human life.
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ; लगभग 100 टाइम्स अधिक लोगों than यहूद using it in 1995, जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य and upper class people in the United States and several other countries.
The Internet has no centralized शासन in either technological क्रियान्वयन or policies for access and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies.
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the Internet, the Internet Protocol address space and the Domain Name System, are directed by a maintainer संगठन, the अंतरजाल निगम लिये आबंटित names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ), a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international भागीदार कि anyone may संबद्ध साथ by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 Winter Olympics, officially ज्ञात as the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल, थी a शीत multi-sport इवेंट which was celebrated in Turin, Italy from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second समय इटली hosted the ओलम्पिक शीत खेल, the first being the VII Olympic Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956.
Italy also hosted the खेल of the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
टोरीनो थी चयनित as the host city for the 2006 games in 1999.
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '', the Italian name of the city ; the city is ज्ञात as `` टोरीनो '' in दोनो अंग्रेज़ी और the लोकल परंपरागत भाषा, Piedmontese.
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` snow '' in इतालवी ), a female snowball, and Gliz, a male ice cube.
The official motto of the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल was `` Passion lives here ''.
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that served as the title song लिये दोनो the 1965 फिल्मी और इसके साउंडट्रैक album.
It was also released as a single, और थी क्रमांक एक लिये तीन weeks in both the United States and the United Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' was written primarily by जॉन लेनन, लकिन credited to lennon–mccartney.
During an interview with Playboy in 1984, Paul McCartney stated that the शीर्षक थी `` आउट of छटपटाहट ''.
पोस्टर लिये the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ), who usually gave his name as S. bing, और थी यूँ प्रायः संदर्भित erroneously as `` सैमुएल bing '' ( सैमुएल ओटो bing, 1850–1905, थी उसके bhai ) थी a जर्मनी आर्ट डीलर जो जिया in पेरिस as an वयस्क, और जो helped introduce जापानी आर्ट और artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
तुलना of पुरूष और मादा जीवन प्रत्याशा at birth for countries and territories as defined in the 2011 CIA Factbook, with selected bubbles labelled.
The बिंदीदार लकीर corresponds to equal female and male life expectancy.
the apparent 3d आयतन of the bubbles are linearly proportional to their population.
इस is a सूची of countries by life expectancy at birth.
Kennewick is a city in benton काउंटी in the southeastern भाग of the u.S. state of Washington, near the Hanford nuclear site.
It is the most populous of the तीन शहरों collectively referred to as the Tri-Cities ( the others being Pasco and Richland ).
kennewick is स्तिथ साथ the दक्षिणपश्चिम बैंको of the कोलंबिया नदी, विपरीत Pasco and just south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers.
The population was 73,917 at the 2010 census.
April 1, 2012 estimates इससे the वॉशिंगटन State Office of Financial Management put the city 's population at 75,160.
The nearest commercial airport is the Tri-Cities विमानक्षेत्र in pasco, a क्षेत्रीय वाणिज्यिक and private airport.
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the United States for job growth, while nearby yakima थी नामित # 1.
The article cites the number of scientists employed by the प्रशांत उत्तरपश्चिम नेशनल प्रयोगशाला and area farmland for this outlook.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin अनुपात ( pr ) और अंतरराष्ट्रीय सामान्यीकृत अनुपात ( inr ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
This test is भी पुकारा `` protime INR '' and `` PT/INR ''.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of रक्त, in the माप of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status.
pt उपायों कारकों i ( फाइब्रिनोजेन ), ii ( prothrombin ), V, VII, and X.
It is used in conjunction with the activated आंशिक thromboplastin समय ( aptt ) जिससे उपायों the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग.
the म्यूज़िक was written by Jimmy McHugh, the lyrics by Dorothy Fields.
The song was प्रकाशित in 1935.
It was introduced by frances langford in the फिल्म प्रत्येक Night at Eight released that year.
The song was प्रदर्शित in the 1936 हमारी गिरोह ( छोटी दुष्टों ) छोटी, the पिंच सिंगर, सुंग by कार्ल `` Alfalfa '' Switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is often ज्ञात to be switzer 's signature song.
James Moody 's saxophone सोलो on a 1952 रिकॉर्डिंग of इस सोंग प्रेरित the song `` Moody 's Mood for Love ``.
Hip hop artist Prince पॉल sampled the सोंग as the आधार लिये the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ), with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics.
The song 's title प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी शीर्षक of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love.
Cross-cultural psychology is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of इंसान बर्ताव और दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं, including both their variability and invariance, under diverse cultural conditions.
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in behavior, language, और अर्थ it seeks to extend और develop मनोविज्ञान.
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America, some psychologists became concerned that constructs स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद नहीं as निश्चर as previously assumed, विशेषकर चूंकि अनेक कोशिशें to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, such as affect, cognition, conceptions of the self, and issues such as psychopathology, anxiety, and depression, may lack external validity when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान re-examines उन्हें using methodologies designed to फ़ैक्टर in सांस्कृतिक मतभेद so as to खाता लिये cultural variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the scientific search for universal principles in psychology, cross-cultural psychologists हैं turning अधिक to the पढ़ाई of कैसा मतभेद ( variance ) occur, बल्कि than searching लिये universals in the स्टाइल of भौतिकी or chemistry.
In 1972 the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( IACCP ) was established.
This branch of psychology has continued to विस्तार as वहीँ रै महरूम an increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating culture and diversity into studies.
Cross-cultural psychology is differentiated इससे सांस्कृतिक psychology.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds that human behavior is significantly influenced by cultural differences, अर्थ कि मनोवैज्ञानिक phenomena can तभी be compared साथ each other across cultures to a very limited extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural psychology includes a search for possible universals in बर्ताव और दिमागी processes.
Walter J. Lonner, writing for Eye on Psi Chi, has stated that `` cross-cultural psychology can be विचार of as a प्रकार शोध methodology, बल्कि than an entirely पृथक फ़ील्ड भीतर मनोविज्ञान ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady गागा, इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो album Born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on अप्रैल 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and redone, `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past, and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't एस्केप.
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the लाइट.
the कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on अनेक धार्मिक समूह, the सोंग थी generally खूब प्राप्त by critics, who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced ट्रैक्स, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` lovegame ``, `` ख़राब रोमांस '', and `` Alejandro ``.
it contains तीन पृथक hooks and a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption, regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of कया a स्त्री should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, but was less कामयाब commercially in तुलना to गागा 's पिछला singles.
The सोंग पहुँचे the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख music markets, and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea.
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical कथानक जहाँ reedus निभाई यहूदा Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The video portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of यहूदा betraying यीशु, और ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its release, the Catholic League condemned गागा लिये the कथित उपयोग of religious imagery and her role in the video.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, नहीं ढूंढना कोई offensive content.
The video was nominated for two awards at the 2011 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including The Graham Norton Show, Saturday रात्रि सजीव, शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video compression, and is currently one of the most commonly प्रयुक्त स्वरुप लिये the रिकॉर्डिंग, संपीडन, और वितरण of ऊँची परिभाषा वीडियो.
The final drafting कार्य on the पहला संस्करण of the standard was completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts समूह ( vceg ) साथ साथ the iso/iec jtc1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
The project साझेदारी प्रयत्न is ज्ञात as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ).
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC standard ( formally, ISO/IEC 14496-10 – mpeg-4 भाग 10, उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) हैं jointly कायम so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the कोडेक मानकों लिये blu-ray discs ; सब Blu-ray Disc players must be able to decode H.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources, such as videos from Vimeo, youtube, और the itunes स्टोर, वेब तन्त्र ऐसे as the adobe फ्लैश खिलाड़ी और microsoft Silverlight, and also various HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC, ISDB-T, DVB-T or DVB-T2 ), cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is a प्रकार of मध्यस्थता in जिससे the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute, but this determination is not binding upon them, and no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory opinion of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the संबंधित merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding arbitration is प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ कोशिशें to पहुँचें a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is, on the सतह, समान to कि of a mediator in a mediation.
However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at, the arbitrator remains totally removed from the उपनिवेश प्रक्रम और होगा तभी दे a determination of देयता और, if उचित, an indication of the quantum of damages payable.
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration, the parties remain free to pursue their claims either through the न्यायालयों, or by रास्ता of a बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता, although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome.
The award and तर्क in a non-binding मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal.
Non-binding arbitration is utilised mostly in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा.
It is largely unknown in Europe, although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a उपनिवेश to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel लिये an राय on the merits और likely quantum of a claim, and then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the kenai प्रायद्वीप बरो of southcentral तटीय अलास्का, दक्षिणपश्चिम of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently दरों माउंट अगस्टाइन as स्तर of Concern Color Code Green for aviation and the Volcano Alert Level is at Normal.
Augustine Island has a land area of, while West Island, बस बंद अगस्टाइन 's पश्चिमी shores, has.
The island is made up mainly of past फटना जमा.
Scientists have been able to discern that past dome collapse has resulted in विशाल avalanches.
A map of बेलीज़.
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km of तटरेखा, और रै many coral reefs, cays, and islands in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef, the longest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध stemming approximately.
The reef and its islands have been a युनेस्को संसार विरासत Site since 1996.
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन सब of जिससे are in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of the islands variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' और `` caye '', and also use the Spanish `` cayo ''.
River islands have नहीं महरूम सूचीबद्ध.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc data भंडार डिवाइस to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks.
DLA is a पैकेट लिखने प्रौद्योगिकी for CD and DVD media that uses the UDF file system.
DLA is not compatible with खिड़कियाँ विस्टा और नए, although a patch exists to fix this issue under Windows Vista.
Roxio Burn was introduced on April 30, 2009.
As a replacement for DLA, it remedies संगतता issues Internet Explorer 8.
अल्फा रेक्स emmanuel humbard ( अगस्त 13, 1919 – सितंबर 21, 2007 ) was a well-known American television evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity.
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film निर्देशित by neil बर्गर और अभिनीत ब्राडली कूपर, abbie Cornish, and Robert De Niro.
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by एलन glynn साथ the पटकथा by Leslie Dixon.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area, the 4th least populous और the तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live भीतर the anchorage महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
Alaska 's economy is वर्चस्व by the आयल, प्राकृतिक गैस, और फ़िशिंग industries ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several प्रशासनिक परिवर्तन पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period, when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, अधिक वस्तुतः, `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards जिससे the कार्रवाई of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` great land '', an Aleut word निकला इससे the वही रूट.
Nelson मंडेला महानगर विश्वविद्यालयों ( nmmu ) is a दक्षिण African tertiary education institution with its main administration in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth.
A merging of three संस्थानों संस्थापित nmmu in जनवरी 2005 लकिन इसके history dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School.
The University draws अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी इससे all over the world.
There are over 3000 international विद्यार्थी और शामिल विद्यार्थी इससे the संयुक्त राज्य, फ़्रांस, चीन, जर्मनी, बेल्जियम, डेनमार्क, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and many other countries.
nmmu is a व्यापक विश्वविद्यालयों offering professional and vocational training.
The विश्वविद्यालयों रै छह campuses - five in Port Elizabeth and one in George.
The main campus is the दक्षिण कैम्पस.
Students at NMMU can पढ़ाई towards diplomas and degrees up to and including doctoral level qualifications.
A number of पाठ्यक्रम शामिल कार्यस्थल experience as part of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an American कॉस्मेटिक्स ब्रांड संस्थापित in मेरीलैंड, by the noxzema रासायनिक कम्पनी ( बाद पुकारा Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989.
The Noxell कम्पनी advertised इस कॉस्मेटिक्स लकीर by allowing `` cover girls '', fashion models who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of सीधा व्यक्तिगत ग्राहक service by providing a wide variety of cosmetics available at reasonable prices.
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य by चार्ल्स डार्विन जिससे is माना to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the संरक्षण of favoured दौड़ in the संघर्ष for Life.
For the छठे संस्करण of 1872, the छोटी शीर्षक थी changed to The Origin of Species.
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory कि populations evolve over the कोर्स of पीढियां through a process of natural selection.
It presented a body of evidence कि the विविधता of जीवन arose by आम descent through a branching pattern of evolution.
Darwin शामिल प्रमाण कि he था gathered on the beagle expedition in the 1830s and his subsequent findings from research, correspondence, and experimentation.
Various evolutionary ideas had already been proposed to बताइये नई निष्कर्षों in जीवविज्ञान.
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, जबकि विज्ञान थी भाग of प्राकृतिक धर्मशास्त्र.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as वे विरोधी साथ the मान्यताओं कि प्रजाति यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed hierarchy and that humans were unique, unrelated to other animals.
The political and theological implications यहूद पडती debated, but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream.
The book was written लिये non-specialist पाठक and attracted widespread interest upon its publication.
As Darwin was an eminent वैज्ञानिक, उसके निष्कर्षों यहूद लिया seriously और the evidence he presented generated scientific, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H. Huxley and उसके fellow सदस्यों of the x क्लबों to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades there was widespread scientific agreement that evolution, with a branching pattern of common descent, had occurred, लकिन वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to दे प्राकृतिक चयन the significance that Darwin thought appropriate.
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s, various other mechanisms of evolution were given more credit.
With the विकास of the आधुनिक विकासवादी संश्लेषण in the 1930s और 1940s, Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural selection became central to modern evolutionary theory, now the unifying concept of the life sciences.
चार्ल्स डिलन `` केसी '' स्टेंगल ( ; जुलाई 30, 1890 – सितंबर 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor '', was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager.
He was निर्वाचित to the बेसबॉल Hall of Fame in.
Stengel was born in कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी, और originally nicknamed `` डच '', a common nickname at that time for Americans of German ancestry.
After his major league career began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', जिससे originally आए इससे the आद्याक्षर of उसके गृहनगर ( `` K. C. '' ), जिससे evolved into `` Casey '', influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters उतावले उसे साथ yet another उपनाम, `` the बूढ़ा प्राध्यापक '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related.
Although his baseball career spanned a number of teams and cities, he is primarily संबद्ध साथ क्लब in नई York City.
Between playing and managing, he is the only man to have worn four of नई यॉर्क 's प्रमुख लीग क्लब ' वर्दी.
He was the first of चार मेन ( through the ऋतु ) to manage both the New York Yankees and New York Mets ; Yogi Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others.
Like Torre, he भी प्रबंधित the Braves and the Dodgers.
He ended his baseball career as the beloved मैनेजर लिये the तब विस्तार नई यॉर्क मेट्स, जिससे जीती over the hearts of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader.
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and gregorian पंचांग और एक of the चार महीने साथ a length of 30 days.
Ovid provides two etymologies for जून 's नाम in उसके कविता concerning the months entitled the Fasti.
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno, wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the दूसरी is कि the नाम आता इससे the लैटिन शब्द iuniores, अर्थ `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` बड़ो '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the जून is the माह साथ the longest daylight घंटों of the साल in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to दिसम्बर in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere and vice versa.
In the Northern hemisphere, the शुरूआत of the meteorological गर्मियाँ is 1 June.
In the Southern hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological शीत is 1 जून.
At the start of June, the sun rises in the नक्षत्र of वृष ; at the end of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini.
however, due to the precession of the equinoxes, जून begins with the sun in the astrological sign of Gemini, and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer.
June is known लिये the विशाल क्रमांक of विवाह that occur over the course of the month.
According to one etymology, जून is नामित बाद Juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the goddess of विवाह और a शादीशुदा युगल 's household, so some consider it good luck to be married in this month.
According to another etymology provided by the Roman poet Ovid, June is named for the iuniores, latin for `` young लोगों '' ( fasti vi.88 ) और कि the माह of may is नामित लिये the maiores, Latin for `` elders ''.
in आइसलैंड, लोकगीत says that if you bathe naked in the morning dew on the morning of June 24, you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer.
A constitution is a set of fundamental सिद्धान्त or स्थापित precedents according to जिससे a state or other organization is governed.
ये नियम साथ make up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is.
When these principles are लिखा bas into a सिंगल दस्तावेज़ or नियत of विधिक दस्तावेज़, those दस्तावेज़ may be कहा to embody a written constitution ; if they are written down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations, from sovereign राज्य to कंपनियाँ और unincorporated associations.
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also its constitution, in that it होता define कैसा कि संगठन is constituted.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a constitution defines the सिद्धान्त upon जिससे the राज्य is आधारित, the कार्यविधि in which laws are made and by whom.
Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, भी अधिनियम as limiters of राज्य शक्ति, by establishing लाइनों जिससे a राज्य 's rulers can not cross, such as fundamental rights.
George Washington at संवैधानिक सम्मेलन of 1787, हस्ताक्षर of u.S. Constitution.
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign country in the संसार, containing 448 आलेख, 12 schedules और 100 amendments, साथ 117,369 शब्द in इसके अंग्रेज़ी भाषा version, while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution, at 7 articles and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut मैनेजर assisting in a robonaut familiarization training session in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center.
Engineering management is a specialized form of management that is concerned with the अनुप्रयोग of अभियान्त्रिकी सिद्धान्त to business practice.
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी और the organizational, प्रशासनिक, and planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion.
Example areas of engineering are product development, manufacturing, construction, design engineering, industrial अभियान्त्रिकी, प्रौद्योगिकी, उत्पादन, or कोई अन्य फ़ील्ड कि employs कर्मियों जो perform an engineering function.
Successful engineering प्रबंधक typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव in business and engineering.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their technical team, and non-commercial प्रबंधक tend to कमी वाणिज्यिक सूझबूझ to उद्धार in a market economy.
Largely, अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक मैनेज इंजीनियर्स जो हैं चलित by non-entrepreneurial सोच, thus require the necessary people skills to coach, mentor and motivate technical professionals.
Engineering पेशेवर joining निर्माण कंपनियाँ sometimes become engineering managers by default after a period of time.
They are required to learn कैसा to मैनेज एकबार वे हैं on the जॉब, हालांकि इस is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the amount of expenses that must be paid out of जेब पहले an insurer होगा अदा कोई expenses.
In general usage, the पद deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of अनेक types of clauses ( see below ) that are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments.
Deductibles are typically प्रयुक्त to deter the विशाल क्रमांक of trivial claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of.
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs, the बीमे कड़ expects to अदा आउट थोड़ा छोटी amounts much कम अक्सर, incurring much higher savings.
As a result, insurance premiums are typically सस्ता जब वे involve उच्चतर deductibles.
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an बीमे नीति कि dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder.
They are normally quoted as a fixed quantity और is a भाग of सबसे policies covering losses to the policy holder.
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable खर्च कि exceed इस राशि ( विषय to the अधिकतम sum claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may लागू प्रति covered घटना, or per year.
For policies where incidences are not easy to delimit ( for उदाहरण स्वास्थ्य बीमे ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer आधारित on the कारण of the claim.
For example, a single housing insurance policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for घाटा or क्षति arising इससे चोरी, आग, प्राकृतिक calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a deductible in the event of an auto, home, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
An invoice or bill is a commercial document जारी by a विक्रेता to a खरीदार, indicating the उत्पाद, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer.
An चालान indicates the sale transaction only.
Payment terms are स्वतंत्र of the चालान और हैं negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
Payment terms are usually included on the चालान.
The खरीदार could have already सशुल्क लिये the products or services listed on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a maximum number of days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date.
In the rental industry, an invoice must include a specific सन्दर्भ to the अवधि of the समय होने billed, so in जोड to मात्रा, price and discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
Generally each line of a rental invoice will refer to the वास्तविक घंटों, दिनों, सप्ताह, महीने, etc., being billed.
From the point of view of a seller, an invoice is a बिक्री चालान.
From the point of view of a खरीदार, an चालान is a खरीदें invoice.
The document indicates the buyer and seller, but the पद चालान indicates धन is owed or owing.
In English, the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify its meaning, such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We प्राप्त an चालान इससे उन्हें '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory प्रणाली.
It is wider, shorter, और अधिक vertical in direction than the left.
It is परिचय 2.5 cm long, और enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra.
The azygos vein arches over it from behind ; और the सही pulmonary धमनी झूठ at first below and then in front of it.
About 2 cm from इसके शुरुआत it देता बंद a branch to the upper lobe of the right lung.
This is termed the eparterial शाखा of the bronchus, because it arises above the right pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes below the artery, and is known as the hyparterial शाखा ; it divides into दो शाखाओं लिये the मध्य and lower lobes.
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea, it will most likely enter the right main bronchus instead of the left, due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or चार खिलाड़ी ( युगल ) in a four-walled court with a small, hollow rubber ball.
The players must alternate in striking the बॉल साथ उनके racquet और hit the बॉल onto the playable सतहों of the four walls of the court.
The game was formerly called squash racquets, a reference to the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the game ( compared साथ the fatter बॉल प्रयुक्त in its parent game racquets or rackets ).
Squash is recognized by the IOC and supporters are lobbying लिये इसके incorporation in a भविष्य ओलम्पिक program.
In 2003, Forbes rated squash as the number एक healthiest खेल to खेल.
Residual oil is आयल मिला in कम concentrations naturally or in exhausted oil fields.
प्रायः मिश्रित साथ जल, it can not be recovered by conventional techniques.
However, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( co2 eor ) जिससे involves injecting कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into the well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil.
The technique is not new but has not महरूम प्रयुक्त extensively on अवशेष आयल zones, low-grade deposits of petroleum such as the 38 square miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr.
the तकनीक is सीमित by availability of carbon dioxide.
It does not result in sequestration of the कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड लकिन the गैस is recycled as much as possible.
United States reserves of अवशेष आयल हैं अनुमानित to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the fire, by John R. Chapin, originally मुद्रित in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक ; the दृश्य चेहरों पूर्वोत्तर आरपार the Randolph Street Bridge.
The Great Chicago आग थी a conflagration कि burned इससे संडे, अक्तूबर 8, to जल्दी मंगलवार, October 10, 1871, killing hundreds and destroying about in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, the rebuilding that began helped develop शिकागो as एक of the सबसे populous और economically महत्वपूर्ण अमरीकी शहरों.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of इंग्लैण्ड इससे 21 अप्रैल 1509 जबतक his death.
He was lord, and later king, of Ireland, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र अर्जी by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is known for his role in the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार, the विच्छेद of the monasteries, और उसके own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं, भी बाद his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new किंग अलाइड साथ the पावन रोमन सम्राट, Maximillian I, and invaded France in 1513 with a large, well-equipped army, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to his own ends, and इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये हेनरी, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne, but again the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V, समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to और इंग्लैण्ड, strained by the विशाल लागत of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक, शिक्षित and accomplished king, and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he also सगाई खुद as an लेखक और composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led to the दो बाते लिये जिससे Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became morbidly obese and his health suffered, contributing to उसके मौत in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful, egotistical, हर्ष, and insecure king.
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo, in संयोजन साथ the एंटेना 3 संजाल और rti producciones.
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte, the drama depicts the rise of टेरेसा मेंडोज़ा ( केट डेल कैस्टिलो ), a यंग स्त्री इससे मैक्सिको जो becomes the सबसे powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain.
Patricio Wills, the president of Telemundo टेलीविज़न studios, थी the executive producer.
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year, Favorite Lead Actress, and Best Bad Luck वीडियो, it जीती no पुरस्कार.
With a $ 10 million budget, La reina डेल सूर थी the सबसे महंगी telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
The program 's premiere on February 28, 2011, was the संजाल 's उच्चतम रेटेड premiere for a telenovela to date.
The program frequently dominated its time slot, even over English भाषा प्रोग्रामिंग on अन्य प्रमुख u.S. संजाल.
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode चलाएं on telemundo और इसके 13 एपीसोड चलाएं on एंटेना 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode was the उच्चतम रेटेड ब्रॉडकास्ट in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 लाख दर्शक ), और ताल सब of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's success spurred telemundo to लॉन्च इसके first campaign to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination.
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31, 2011, and marked the telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात latina टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व Cristina Saralegui.
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other markets, including Serbia, Colombia, Chile, Cyprus, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Mexico, Albania, हंगेरियाई, स्लोवेनियाई, क्रोएशिया, रोमानिया, ( among others ).
An example of रैक mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals और संगठन to मेक उनके जालस्थल accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies कि provide स्पेस on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased for use by clients, as well as providing Internet connectivity, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the अंतरजाल लिये अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच, पुकारा colocation, भी ज्ञात as आवास in Latin America or France.
The scope of web hosting सेवाएं varies greatly.
The most basic is वेब पेज और small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग, जहाँ फाइलें can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files हैं प्रायः वितरित to the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing.
Many अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) offer this service free to subscribers.
Individuals and संगठन may भी obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
कारोबार वेब साईट होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर expense depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये निजी वेब पृष्ठों.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस support और अनुप्रयोग विकास platforms ( e.g. PHP, Java, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to लिखें or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग like forums and content management.
Also, Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically प्रयुक्त लिये e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट, as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल और सेवा अनुप्रयोग like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g. e-commerce ), which are commonly used by larger कंपनियाँ कि outsource संजाल अवसंरचना.
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल वीडियो खेल श्रेणी विकसित by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला tiburon for EA Sports.
The game श्रेणी is नामित बाद प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of famer जॉन मैडेन, a well-known former Super Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator.
The श्रेणी is the बेहतरीन selling EA Sports series.
The खेल have consistently महरूम a best seller, and has even spawned TV shows where players compete.
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics, and voice commentary कि allows खिलाड़ी to सुन the खेल as if it यहूद a real TV broadcast.
The Madden NFL series has been nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd Franchise.
The series was originally conceived by Electronic कला संस्थापक ट्रिप हॉकिन्स, जो तब approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to Madden 's insistence that the game be as realistic as संभावित, the पहला संस्करण of जॉन मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल was not released until 1988.
The दूसरी संस्करण of the खेल थी released in 1990, with annual versions since then.
The श्रेणी ' नाम थी बदला to मैडेन NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players.
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he continues to lend उसके नाम और provide expertise for the game.
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10, 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son, U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan, थी मारे by दुश्मन कार्रवाई दौरान the इराकी युद्ध.
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar विरोध at a makeshift शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि खींचा दोनो passionate support and angry criticism.
Sheehan ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2008.
She is a vocal critic of President बराक ओबामा 's विदेशी नीति.
Her memoir, Peace Mom : A Mother 's Journey through heartache to सक्रियता, थी प्रकाशित in 2006.
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the Peace and Freedom Party.
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17, 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's अध्यक्षीय बैलट – समय, अगस्त 21, 2010.
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running for President of Haiti, Wyclef जां थी स्टिल लिस्टिंग उसके age as only 37 years old.
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate, the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come clean and confirm that he was वाकई 40. '' is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning haitian-american rapper, singer-songwriter, संगीतकार, रिकार्ड निर्माता, and politician.
At age nine, Jean moved to the संयुक्त राज्य साथ उसके परिवार and has spent much of his life in the country.
He first प्राप्त कीर्ति as a सदस्य of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean filed for उम्मीदवारी in the 2010 haitian अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, although the Electoral Commission subsequently ruled him ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years.
wyclef जां to अपील against Haiti election ruling – BBC News, Aug 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to स्टैंड as the haitian संविधान requires उम्मीदवार to have जिया in the देश लिये पाँच years prior to an election.
The 40-year-old सिंगर जीवनदान in the US.
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief, अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout हैती और the संयुक्त राज्य, यहूद channeled through his charitable organization, Yéle Haiti.
The charity, which performed a किस्में of charitable works in हैती between 2005 and 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory रक्षा to the पूरे or to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim.
It had no existence under the अंग्रेज़ी आम विधि, होने निर्मित by 2 जियो. II c. 22 for the relief of insolvent debtors, although set-off was recognized in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite character, and did not लागू to मामले in जिससे क्षतिपूर्ति यहूद claimed, nor to निष्पक्ष दावा or demands.
By the rules of the परम् अदालत ( O. xix. r. 3 ) a प्रतिवादी in an कार्रवाई may नियत बंद or set up any right or claim by way of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff, and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
The विधिक रक्षा of set-off ( ऊपर ) थी originally introduced to prevent the अन्यायपूर्ण हालात whereby a person ( `` Party A '' ) who owed money to another ( `` Party B '' ) could be sent to debtors prison, despite the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A.
The law thus allows दोनो पार्टियों to टालना payment until their respective claims have been heard in court.
Upon judgment, both claims are extinguished and replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g. If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105, the two sums are set off and replaced साथ a सिंगल दायित्व of 5 इससे पार्टी b to पार्टी a ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual अनुबंध so that, where a party defaults, the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished.
In certain jurisdictions ( सहित the uk ), set-off takes प्लेस automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent कम्पनी, परस्पर debts हैं set-off विरूद्ध प्रत्येक अन्य, और तब either the दिवालिया 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid, depending on which side owed the most.
This has been criticized as an undeclared सुरक्षा ब्याज that violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, where a creditor has to pay all its debts, but receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys कि अन्य unsecured लेनदारों मिलेंगी, मुद्राएँ the खतरे of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
the सही to नियत बंद is विशेषकर important when reporting a bank 's exposures to regulatory authorities.
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed, because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its जमाकर्ताओं ' धन ) is यूँ replaced ( जहाँ the बैंको रै लिया सुरक्षा over shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken.
Jennifer Joanna एनिस्टन ( born फ़रवरी 11, 1969 ) is an American actress, film director, and producer.
Aniston gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s for portraying Rachel Green on the television sitcom Friends, a role which earned उसके an एमी पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार.
एनिस्टन रै भी enjoyed a successful Hollywood film career.
She gained critical acclaim for her प्रदर्शन in the स्वतंत्र films वो 's the एक ( 1996 ), दफ्तर स्पेस ( 1999 ), The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ).
She has had her greatest commercial सफलताओं साथ the films ब्रूस सर्वशक्तिमान ( 2003 ), the break-up ( 2006 ), Marley & Me ( 2008 ), Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston received a star on the हॉलीवुड चलना of Fame on February 22, 2012.
A white बंगाल बाघ at the Houston Aquarium
( वीडियो )
A श्वेत बाघ at tobu Zoo, in Saitama, Japan.
The white tiger is a recessive म्यूटेंट of the बंगाल बाघ, जिससे थी reported in the जंगली इससे time to time in Assam, Bengal, Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa.
Conventional PCI ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed इससे परिधीय घटक इंटरकनेक्ट, part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a प्रोसेसर बस, लकिन in a मानकीकृत format that is independent of any particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, पुकारा a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an विस्तार card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles, where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently महरूम अपनाया for other computer types.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, most motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई slots, which are sufficient for many uses.
The पीसीआई specification कवर the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( सहित the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be purchased from the पीसीआई खास ब्याज समूह ( pci-sig ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards, ध्वनि ताश, modems, अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI वीडियो ताश replaced isa और vesa ताश, जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with old PCs बगैर अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट.
Many devices previously provided on PCI विस्तार ताश हैं अभी commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
कैफीन is a कड़वा, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that acts as a stimulant drug.
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds, leaves, and fruit of some plants, where it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक कीटनाशक कि paralyzes और मारता निश्चित कीट feeding on the पौधे, as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by इंसानो in infusions निकाली इससे the बीज of the कॉफी संयंत्र और the पत्ते of the tea bush, as well as from various foods and drinks containing products derived from the kola nut.
अन्य स्त्रोत शामिल yerba maté, guarana berries, guayusa, and the yaupon holly.
In humans, caffeine acts as a central nervous system stimulant, temporarily warding बंद drowsiness और restoring alertness.
It is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many अन्य psychoactive substances, it is विधिक और unregulated in nearly सब भाग of the world.
Beverages containing caffeine, such as कॉफी, चाय, नरम पेय, और उर्जा पेय, आनंद great popularity.
In North America, 90 % of वयस्कों consume कैफीन daily.
Part of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe ) is कि विषाक्त doses ( over 10 गामा ) हैं much उच्चतर than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks, even when carried on for years – there may be a modest protective प्रभाव विरूद्ध कुछ रोगों, सहित parkinsons बीमारी, और निश्चित types of cancer.
Caffeine can have दोनो धनात्मक और ऋणात्मक प्रभाव on anxiety disorders.
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine, especially during the संध्या घंटों, लकिन अन्य दिखाएँ little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is highly variable.
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal, लकिन कुछ अधिकारियों have concluded कि दूरदर्शी सलाह is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less.
The American Congress of Obstetricians and स्त्रीरोग ( acog ) concluded in 2010 कि caffeine consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women.
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it, but regular users develop a tolerance to this effect, and अध्ययन have generally विफल to support the आम ख़्याल कि ordinary खपत contributes significantly to निर्जलीकरण.
With heavy use, सहिष्णुता develops rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated दिल rate and muscle twitching, but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine.
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a विषय of controversy in the medical literature.
A kicktail क्रूजर
A longboard is a longer रूपांतर of a skateboard.
It is commonly used for cruising, downhill racing, slalom रेसिंग, स्लाइडिंग, and/or हस्तांतरण.
Sources outside of Wikipedia दे differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the distribution of religions as Christian 100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 %, Protestant 8.15 %, Orthodox 4.96 %, Anglican 1.26 % ), Muslim 22.74 %, Hindu 13.8 %, Buddhist 6.77 %, सिखों 0.35 %, यहूदी 0.22 %, baha'i 0.11 %, अन्य धर्मों 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The Coast Ranges of California span from Humboldt County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया दक्षिण to सांता बारबरा काउंटी.
The other three coastal California mountain ranges हैं the अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ, Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains.
Physiographically, they are a section of the larger Pacific Border province, which in turn हैं भाग of the larger प्रशांत पहाड़ प्रणाली physiographic प्रभाग.
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve `` in its Man और the जीवमंडल कार्यक्रम of संसार Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
Vehicles in उपयोग प्रति देश इससे 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant growth in BRIC.
World map of passenger cars प्रति 1000 लोगों
An automobile, autocar, motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for transporting यात्री, which also carries its own engine or motor.
सबसे परिभाषाएं of the पद बताएँ कि ऑटोमोबाइल हैं designed to चलाएं primarily on सड़कें, to have seating for one to eight people, to typically have four wheels, and to be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods.
The term motorcar रै भी महरूम प्रयुक्त in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of electrified रेल प्रणालियों to denote a car which functions as a small locomotive but also provides space for passengers and baggage.
These locomotive cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban और intercity रेलरोड प्रणालियों.
It was estimated in 2010 that the number of ऑटोमोबाइल था risen to over 1 billion vehicles, up from the 500 million of 1986.
The numbers हैं increasing rapidly, विशेषकर in China and India.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his initials JFK, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत from 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional ज़िला in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the u.S. सीनेट इससे 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड निक्सन in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 सालो of आयु, he is the youngest to have महरूम elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the स्पेस रेस, the african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति, और जल्दी चरण of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers, खास आपरेशन शक्तियां, और helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, village internment, and पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in डलास, Texas.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he was shot और मारे by जोकर माणिक्य दो दिनों बाद, before a trial could take place.
the एफबीआई और the वारेन Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations यहूद flawed और कि कैनेडी थी संभवतः assassinated as the परिणाम of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन कि lasted इससे 1963 to 1970.
Since the 1960s information concerning कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन has come to light.
विवरण of कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं in which he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
Although initially kept रहस्य इससे the सामान्य पब्लिक, रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय ratings of U.S. presidents.
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( शीर्ष ) और ग्राफिक annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall, at James Madison University.
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm control unit ( FACU ) / autonomous कंट्रोल ईकाई ( acu ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system.
manufactured by Edwards, A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( FACP ), or Fire Alarm कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ), is the controlling घटक of a Fire Alarm System.
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire, monitors उनके operational अखंडता और provides लिये स्वचालित कंट्रोल of उपकरण, और हस्तांतरण of सूचना जरुरी to तैयारी the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence.
The panel may also सप्लाई विद्युत उर्जा to operate any associated sensor, control, transmitter, or relay.
There are four basic प्रकार of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, and multiplex systems.
This is a list of the पहला म्यूज़िक वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on एमटीवी 's first day, August 1, 1981.
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and uploaded onto YouTube in 2010 ( हालांकि तभी the पहला चार घंटों यहूद प्रामाणिक ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake International Airport and Colombo अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय airports serving the city of Colombo, the other is Ratmalana International Airport.
mattala राजपक्षे अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र स्तिथ in दक्षिणी city of Hambantota is the other international airport in Sri Lanka.
भण्डारनायके International Airport is located in Katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo.
It is administered by विमानक्षेत्र और विमानन Services ( Sri Lanka ) Ltd.
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines, the नेशनल वाहक of श्री लंका, और mihin लंका, the budget airline of Sri Lanka.
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by Darren aronofsky और अभिनीत नताली पोर्टमैन, विंसेंट Cassel, and Mila Kunis.
The plot revolves around a production of tchaikovsky 's swan झील बैले by a prestigious नई यॉर्क नगर company.
The production requires a ballerina to play the निर्दोष और नाजुक श्वेत swan, लिये जिससे the वचनबद्ध dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit, as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan, which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ).
Nina is अभिभूत by a अहसास of immense दबाव जब she finds herself competing for the part, causing her to lose her tenuous grip on reality and descend into a living nightmare.
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a उत्पादन of swan झील साथ an unrealized screenplay about understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double, similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers.
Aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` the दोगुना `` as another प्रेरणा for the film.
The director also considered Black Swan a companion piece to उसके 2008 film The Wrestler, with both films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art.
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000, and after a ब्रैड अनुलग्नक to सार्वभौमिक studios, ब्लैक swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior to filming, and notable figures from the बैले संसार helped साथ फिल्मी उत्पादन to आकार the बैले प्रस्तुतीकरण.
The film premiered as the opening फिल्मी लिये the 67th वेनिस अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी Festival on September 1, 2010.
It had a limited release in the United States starting दिसम्बर 3, 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17.
Black Swan received नाजुक तारीफ़ upon इसके रिलीज, विशेषकर for Portman 's performance and Aronofsky 's direction, and was a significant box office success, grossing $ 329 million worldwide.
The film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the film, as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार in अनेक guilds and festivals, while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director.
In addition, the film itself प्राप्त a नामांकन for Best Picture.
The world’s first ice-calorimeter, used in the winter of 1782-83, by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये और pierre-simon लाप्लास, to determine the ऊष्मा शामिल in विभिन्न रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations जिससे यहूद आधारित on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat.
These experiments mark the foundation of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor, meaning heat ) is an object used for calorimetry, or the process of measuring the ऊष्मा of रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ or शारीरिक परिवर्तन as well as heat capacity.
Differential स्कैनिंग calorimeters, समतापी microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types.
A सरल ऊष्मामापी बस consists of a थर्मामीटर संलग्न to a metal container full of water suspended above a combustion chamber.
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a substance A in a reaction between two substances A and B, the substances are added to a ऊष्मामापी और the आरंभिक और फाइनल temperatures ( पहले the प्रतिक्रिया प्रारंभ और बाद it has finished ) are noted.
Multiplying the temperature बदलें by the द्रव्यमान और विशिष्ट ऊष्मा capacities of the substances gives a value for the energy given off or absorbed during the reaction.
Dividing the energy change by how अनेक औज़ार of a यहूद उपस्थित देता its enthalpy change of reaction.
This method is used primarily in academic शिक्षण as it describes the सिद्धान्त of calorimetry.
It does not account for the heat loss through the container or the ऊष्मा क्षमता of the थर्मामीटर and container itself.
In addition, the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid, and the heat अवशोषित by the ऊष्मामापी और the द्रव is बराबर to the heat given off by the metals.
A जोड़ी of green flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of other names throughout the world ) are a type of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल परिस्थितियों, ऐसे as बाहर or at the बीच.
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by a y-shaped डोरी कि गुजरता between the पहला and second toes and around either side of the foot.
They may also be held to the foot with a single strap over the सामने of the पैर बल्कि than a thong.
The name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the sound कि is बना by slapping between the एकमात्र of the foot and the floor when walking.
This style of footwear has been worn by the people of many cultures throughout the world, originating as जल्दी as the प्राचीन उन्होंने in 4,000 B.C.
The modern flip-flop उतरता इससे the जापानी zōri, जिससे became लोकप्रिय बाद संसार युद्ध II when soldiers returning to the United States brought them back.
They became popular in casual settings during the 1960s, 1990s, and 2000s, and some किस्में have भी मिला उनके रास्ता into अधिक औपचारिक पहनावा, despite criticism.
The use of flip-flops can result in many pains और चोटों, including ankle sprains and broken bones.
Some individuals जो चलना लिये long अवधि रपट पीड़ा in the feet, ankles, and lower legs.
The कमी of support provided by flip-flops प्रायः results in over-pronation injuries, caused by the foot slipping inwards further than normal.
इस can सीसे to flat feet and tendonitis.
Other injuries that may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed nature, such as stubbed toes, कटौती, और bruises.
Doctors सुझाएँ खरीदना pricier चप्पल साथ thick-cushioned सोल्स, as well as those that have a strap that is not canvas and that comes back almost to the ankle.
The owners of Hanjin Osaka, seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008, घोषित सामान्य औसत following an विस्फोट in the ship 's engine room on.
The law of general average is a legal principle of maritime law according to which all parties in a sea venture proportionally share कोई नुकसान resulting इससे a voluntary बलिदान of भाग of the जलयान or कार्गो to सहेजें the whole in an emergency.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, crew members often have precious little time in which to determine precisely जिनकी कार्गो वे हैं jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling कि could बर्बाद मूल्यवान समय, वहीँ arose the निष्पक्ष अभ्यास whereby सब the व्यापारियों जिनकी कार्गो उतरा सकुशल would be called on to contribute a portion, based upon a share or percentage, to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
While general average traces इसके origins in प्राचीन मेरीटाइम विधि, स्टिल it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries.
The पहला संहिताकरण of सामान्य average was the York Antwerp Rules of 1890.
American कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it in 1949.
General average requires three elements which are clearly stated by mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
`` 1st.
A common danger : a danger in which vessel, cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and जाहिर 'inevitable, ' मगर by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting दूर, of कुछ portion of the संयुक्त चिंता लिये the purpose of बचने इस imminent peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
इस attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril must be successful ''.
Example Polish कॉल लिये टीकाकरण against Diphtheria and Tetanus.
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations, including the timing of all doses, which may be either recommended or अनिवार्य, depending on the देश of निवास.
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to उपज क्रियाशील प्रतिरक्षण to a बीमारी, in अनुक्रम to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness, either to produce sufficient initial प्रतिरक्षा response or to boost response that fades over time.
For example, tetanus vaccine boosters are often अनुशंसित प्रत्येक 10 years.
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a locality जबकि महती the क्रमांक of स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणाली interactions.
Over the past two decades, the recommended vaccination अनुसूची रै grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as many new vaccines have been developed.
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain areas ( countries, subnational क्षेत्रों, or at-risk populations ) जहाँ a disease is common.
For instance, yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of French Guiana, is recommended in certain regions of ब्राज़ील लकिन in the संयुक्त राज्य is तभी दिए to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease.
In विकासशील देशों, टीका सुझाव भी take into account the level of health care access, the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage.
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन दिखाएँ a विकसित देश using a अनुसूची जिससे extends over the पहला पाँच सालो of a चाइल्ड 's जीवन और उपयोग vaccines which cost over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing country uses a schedule providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25.
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care, the निम्नतर लागत of अनेक टीके provided to विकासशील राष्ट्र, और कि अधिक महंगी vaccines, often for less common diseases, are not utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox vaccine was the only one administered to children.
By the early 1950s, children routinely received four vaccines, for protection विरूद्ध ( डिप्थीरिया, pertussis, टेटनस, पोलियो, और smallpox ), और as अनेक as पाँच गोलियाँ by two years of age.
Since the mid-1980s, many vaccines have been added to the अनुसूची.
, the US Centers for बीमारी कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) now recommends vaccination against at least fourteen diseases.
By two years of age, U.S. children receive as many as 24 vaccine injections, and might receive up to पाँच गोलियाँ दौरान एक विज़िट to the doctor.
The use of संयोजन टीका उत्पाद अर्थात् कि,, the संयुक्त Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by the age of two, rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection.
दो revellers नृत्य in the streets.
The form of नाचना is पुकारा `` wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
a म्यूज़िक ट्रक entertains the crowd on the streets.
Trucks are an अभिन्न भाग of the गली परेड, featuring live performances or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an सालाना इवेंट आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले राख Wednesday, and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations.
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant इवेंट on the आइलैंड्स ' सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन पंचांग, साथ numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday.
It is said that if the islanders are नहीं celebrating it, तब वे हैं तैयारी लिये it, जबकि reminiscing about the past year 's festival.
The heart of the musical जश्न रै महरूम कैलिप्सो ; recently सोका रै replaced calypso as the most celebrated type of music.
Costumes, stickfighting और limbo प्रतियोगिताओं are also important components of the festival.
कार्निवल as it is मनाये in Trinidad and Tobago is also celebrated in cities worldwide.
These सहित टोरंटो 's caribana, मियामी 's मियामी कार्निवल, Houston Carifest, London 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few.
Carnival was created when West अफ़्रीकी स्लेव mimicked उनके फ्रेंच स्वामी जो जहाँ ज्ञात for their lavish costumes balls.
Forbidden to partake in these festivities और confined to उनके quarters, slaves combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete.
Hence the creation of वर्ण ऐसे as jab jab or jab molassie ( शैतानों ), Midnight Robbers, Imps, Lagahroo, Soucouyant, La Diablesse and Demons.
With the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed Africans took their version of Carnival to the गलियों through अभिव्यक्ति of ड्रम, riddim भाग जैसे tamboo बाँसुरी और as प्रत्येक नई अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी entered Trinidad, Carnival evolved into what we know today.
The city of Chicago, Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral election on मंगलवार, फ़रवरी 22, 2011.
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley, a member of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो था महरूम in दफ्तर चूंकि 1989, किया not seek a seventh term as mayor.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by November 22, 2010 to qualify लिये a प्लेस on the बैलट.
April 5, 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff चुनाव तिथि if no प्रत्याशी प्राप्त an निरपेक्ष majority.
Rahm Emanuel won the race for mayor साथ अधिक than 55 % of the vote.
He was उदघाटन on May 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a song by American इंडी पॉप बैंड फोस्टर the People.
It was released as the समूह 's डेब्यू सिंगल in सितंबर 2010, और the following year was included on their EP Foster the People and their debut album Torches.
`` उत्तेजित up kicks '' became the समूह 's breakthrough hit and was one of the most popular songs of 2011.
The song was written and अंकित by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर while he was working as a commercial jingle writer.
Contrasting with the upbeat musical संयोजन, the गीत describe the homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth.
The track received considerable attention after it थी posted ऑनलाइन in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड, और it helped the group garner a multi-album record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International.
`` Pumped up kicks '' proved to be a स्लीपर hit ; in 2011, बाद receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations, the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations.
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य, बनाना it the first Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
The song थी widely praised by आलोचकों, और it रै महरूम licensed for use in a wide range of popular media since its release.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' प्राप्त a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन पॉप Duo/Group Performance.
The State Fair of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया is an annual state fair for West Virginia.
It is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in Fairlea, निकट lewisburg, वेस्ट वर्जिनिया in the southeastern भाग of the state.
The State Fairgrounds consists of a विशाल खोलें फ़ील्ड लिये carnivals और प्रदर्शनियों, a horse track, grandstands, and several exhibition buildings.
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds और, जबतक 2006, फ़्री कैंप थी भी उपलब्धियाँ in a विशाल field with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
Campers are now चार्ज a small fee.
the श्वेत हाउस, the अध्यक्ष 's official residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the President of the United राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole, the presidency is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence and recognition.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no person may be elected President more than twice, and no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than दो सालो of a पद to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from office of an incumbent President, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the office.
The President must be at तनिक 35 सालो of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस ratification, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment to the United States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as अध्यक्ष, चार died in दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम हेनरी हैरिसन, zachary टेलर, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest समय in दफ्तर साथ 32 दिनों in 1841, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट spent the longest with over twelve years, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only अध्यक्ष to serve अधिक than दो शर्तें, और a संवैधानिक amendment, affecting presidents after Harry Truman, was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be elected by men of सब वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained voting rights in 1920.
History रिकॉर्ड चार राष्ट्रपतियों – जॉन q एडम्स, रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़, बेंजामिन हैरिसन and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष of रोमन कैथोलिक आस्था, and the current president, Barack Obama, is the first president of African descent.
`` लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी '' redirects here.
For the award awarded annually to the best college फ़ुटबॉल lineman or linebacker, देखिए Lombardi Award.
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded प्रत्येक साल to the जीतना टोली of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
The trophy is named in सम्मान of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi.
इस is a सूची of टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest people in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध, ऐसे as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met विंसेंट वैन Gogh when she was 12 or 13.
This led to न्यूज मीडिया ध्यान in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age, परे कोई उचित सवाल, in the रिकॉर्ड of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of calment 's जीवनकाल रै महरूम उत्पादित than लिये कोई other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of jiroemon किमुरा, जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, Kimura, born 19 April 1897, is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented.
he रै भी महरूम the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013, the oldest जीना woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
The People 's Court is an American arbitration-based वास्तविकता अदालत दिखाएँ, फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा राज्य सर्किट Court Judge Marilyn Milian, in which small claims disputes are handled.
The People 's Court is the first court show to use binding मध्यस्थता, introducing the स्वरूप into the genre in 1981.
The प्रणाली रै महरूम duplicated by most of the show 's successors in the judicial genre.
Moreover, The लोगों 's अदालत is the पहला लोकप्रिय, long-running reality in the judicial genre.
It was preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the विधा ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों यहूद तभी loosely related to judicial proceedings, except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings.
Prior to The People 's Court, the vast majority of TV courtroom shows used अभिनेताओं, और बनाई or fictional मामले ( as किया radio before that ).
Among examples of these types of अदालत shows शामिल प्रसिद्ध जूरी ट्रायल और अपना Witness.
The लोगों 's अदालत रै था two contrasting lives.
The show 's first life was presided over solely by former Los Angeles काउंटी श्रेष्ठ अदालत न्यायधीश जोसेफ Wapner.
His tenure lasted इससे the दिखाएँ 's डेब्यू on September 14, 1981, until May 21, 1993, when the show was cancelled due to low ratings.
इस बाएँ the दिखाएँ साथ a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons.
The दिखाएँ थी taped in Los Angeles during its first life.
After being cancelled, reruns aired जबतक सितंबर 9, 1994.
on सितंबर 8, 1997, बाद होने आउट of उत्पादन for four years, The People 's Court was revived for a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program.
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter, जिससे he कायम लिये 2 सीज़न इससे the 1997–98 ऋतु through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the उपस्थित life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 season, husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge जुडी ) और पूर्व नई यॉर्क राज्य परम् अदालत न्यायधीश Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch.
Sheindlin lasted एक और a हाफ सीज़न as he थी replaced towards the end of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ).
Beginning in spring 2001, Florida न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian took over The People 's Court and has presided over the show ever since.
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 season, she will have served as longest arbiter over the श्रेणी साथ 12 और a half seasons.
As of the उपस्थित, however, उसके सालो on the कार्यक्रम tie Wapner at 12 seasons.
In the 2009-10 टेलीविज़न ऋतु, the लोगों 's Courts 2nd/present life outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons.
While the show taped in New York City for the पहला 15 सीज़न of इसके दूसरी जीवन, it अभी टेपों in Stamford, Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season.
On September 3, 2012, The People 's अदालत 's 2nd/present जीवन डाला its 16th season ( 28th overall season ).
With 28 total seasons, The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the ongoing Divorce Court at 33 सीज़न ( इससे इसके 3 संयुक्त lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( arapaho : wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the Western United States.
It became the 45th state admitted to the संघ on जनवरी 4, 1896.
Utah is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front, centering on Salt Lake City, leaving vast expanses of the state nearly uninhabited और बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the u.S. यूटा is bordered by Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, Idaho on the north, Arizona on the south, and Nevada on the west.
It also छू a कोने of नई मैक्सिको on the southeast.
यूटा is the सबसे religiously समरूप state in the Union.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or lds ( mormons ), जिससे greatly प्रभाव यूटा culture and daily life.
The world headquarters of The गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital.
The state is a center of transportation, education, सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी और शोध, सरकारी सेवाएं, mining, and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates, यूटा is the पांचवां fastest-growing राज्य in the संयुक्त States as of 2012.
st. जार्ज, थी the fastest–growing महानगर area in the United States from 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` best state to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking माप सहित विभिन्न आर्थिक, lifestyle, and health-related outlook metrics.
Coldwater is a small town in टेट काउंटी, मिसिसिपी.
it is in the Memphis Metropolitan Area.
The population was 1,674 at the 2000 census.
The hard palate is a thin आड़ा बोनी थाली of the कपाल, स्तिथ in the roof of the mouth.
It spans the मेहराब formed by the upper teeth.
It is formed by the palatine process of the maxilla और आड़ा थाली of palatine अस्थि.
It forms a partition between the nasal passages और the mouth.
भी on the अग्रवर्ती portion of the छत of the मुश्किल तालु is the rugae जिससे are the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx.
This partition is जारी deeper into the मुँह by a fleshy extension called the soft palate.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a नाम प्रयुक्त in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The Tanakh is also known as the masoretic टेक्स्ट or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '', भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ), nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), meaning `` that which is read '', is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी पद लिये the Tanakh.
The books of the tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
Sobriety checkpoint in जर्मनी
Driving under the influence ( DUI ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), drunken driving, drunk ड्राइविंग, पेय ड्राइविंग, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence, पीने और ड्राइविंग, or impaired ड्राइविंग is the अपराधों of ड्राइविंग a मोटर vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '', or `` BAC '' ).
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of machinery while affected by पीने दारू or लेने अन्य दवाएँ, सहित, लकिन नहीं सीमित to नुस्खा drugs.
This is a दण्ड ठोकर in most nations.
convictions do नहीं necessarily involve actual driving of the vehicle.
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a रक्त दारू सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर, ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense, with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol.
In some jurisdictions, there is an aggravated category of the offense at a उच्चतर स्तर e.g. 0.12 %.
in सबसे देशों, anyone जो is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can be heavily fined, as in France, in addition to being given a lengthy prison sentence.
Some jobs have their अपना नियम और bac हद, लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट, and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example, the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै a 0.08 % bac सीमा, जिससे is lowered to 0.04 % if the ऑपरेटर holds a commercial driver 's license.
The कैलिफ़ोर्निया bac सीमा is 0.01 % लिये those younger than 21 years of age and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction.
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their अपना bac सीमा of 0.02 % कि, if violated दौरान a यादृच्छिक test or a for-cause test — for example, after a traffic accident — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in sentencing कानून कि enforce सख्त दिशानिर्देश on sentencing, differing इससे पिछला अभ्यास जहाँ थाना time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued.
Some jurisdictions have judicial दिशानिर्देश requiring a अनिवार्य minimum sentence.
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive fees to forfetiruree of अपना अनुज्ञा प्लेटों और in कुछ गंभीर हालातों, अपना गाडी.
A drunk ड्राइविंग सिम्युलेटर in Montréal, Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called, depending on the jurisdiction, driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ), driving under intense influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), operating under the influence ( OUI ) ऑपरेटिंग जबकि intoxicated ( owi ), ऑपरेटिंग a मोटर गाडी जबकि intoxicated ( omvi ), driving under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs, driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ].
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling, बोटिंग, piloting वायुयान, उपयोग of motile फार्म उपकरण ऐसे as tractors और combines, riding horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle, or bicycling, possibly with different BAC level than driving.
In some jurisdictions there are पृथक आरोप depending on the गाडी प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as bwi ( bicycling while intoxicated ), which may carry a lighter sentence.
In the United States, local law enforcement एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले देशभर लिये ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence of alcohol in 1996, compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983.
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI offenders यहूद in थाना or कारावास, bas इससे 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from US Customs and Border सुरक्षा बोर्डिंग a जलयान
Law enforcement in the संयुक्त राज्य is एक of तीन प्रमुख components of the दण्ड justice system of the United States, along with courts and corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the different groups that make up the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली आधारित on उनके अपराधों deterrence purpose, each component operates independently from one another.
However, the judiciary is vested with the power to make legal determinations regarding the conduct of the अन्य दो components.
Apart from maintaining order और सेवा कृत्यों, the purpose of policing is the investigation of suspected criminal activity and the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts.
Law प्रवर्तन, to varying डिग्री at अलग स्तर of सरकारी और in अलग एजेंसियों, is भी commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring दण्ड कार्यकलाप and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants, writs and other orders of the courts.
Law प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों हैं भी शामिल in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies and other threats to public safety ; the protection of certain public facilities and infrastructure ; the maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28, 1968 ), best ज्ञात अंतर्गत the स्टेज नाम chayanne, is a प्यूर्टो rican Latin pop singer and actor.
As a solo artist, chayanne रै released 21 solo albums and sold over 15 million albums worldwide.
`` World युद्ध हल्क '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक that ran through a self titled limited series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007, featuring the Hulk.
the श्रेणी consists of पाँच प्रमुख मुद्दे titled संसार युद्ध हल्क, साथ ग्रेग पाक as लेखक और जॉन romita, Jr. as penciller, and three other limited series : World War Hulk : Front Line, World War Hulk : Gamma Corps, and World War Hulk : X-Men.
It also भागा through अनेक अन्य Marvel comics series.
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into स्पेस by the illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम फ़्यूरी, the हल्क 's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati.
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; may 26, 1907 – जून 11, 1979 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज name John Wayne, was an American film actor, director and producer.
An Academy Award -winner, वेन थी among the शीर्ष बक्सा दफ्तर draws लिये तीन decades, and was named the all-time top money-making star.
An enduring अमरीकी प्रतीक, he epitomized rugged masculinity and is famous for his demeanor, including his distinctive calm voice, walk, and height.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa but his family relocated to the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स area when he was four years old.
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football scholarship to USC as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing accident.
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation, he ज़्यादातर appeared in छोटी बिट भाग.
His first leading role came in the widescreen epic The Big Trail ( 1930 ), जिससे led to अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in numerous films throughout the 1930s, अनेक of them in the western genre.
His career rose to further heights in 1939, with जॉन घाट 's stagecoach बनाना उसे an तत्काल superstar.
Wayne would go on to स्टार in 142 तस्वीरें, primarily typecast in Western films.
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ), which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster निभाई by maureen o'hara ; the searchers ( 1956 ), in जिससे he plays a Civil War veteran who seeks out his abducted niece ; Rio Bravo ( 1959 ), playing a Sheriff with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous U.S. Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ), his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
Wayne moved to Orange काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s, और थी a prominent Republican in Hollywood, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of stomach कर्कट in 1979.
In June 1999, the American Film Institute named Wayne 13th among the महानतम पुरूष स्क्रीन महापुरूष of सब Time.
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ), was an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, और पारस जो निभाई a प्रमुख भूमिका in the वैज्ञानिक Revolution.
His achievements include सुधार to the दूरदर्शी और consequent खगोलीय observations and support for Copernicanism.
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational astronomy ``, the `` पिता of आधुनिक भौतिकी ``, the `` पिता of विज्ञान '', और `` the पिता of आधुनिक विज्ञान ''.
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic पुष्टि of the phases of शुक्र, the डिस्कवरी of the चार largest satellites of बृहस्पति ( named the Galilean moons in his honour ), and the observation and analysis of sunspots.
Galileo also worked in लागू विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी, inventing an improved military compass and other instruments.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was विवादास्पद भीतर उसके lifetime, when most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system.
He met with opposition from astronomers, who doubted heliocentrism due to the अनुपस्थिति of an observed तारकीय लंबन.
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615, और वे concluded कि it could be supported as only a possibility, not an established fact.
Galileo later defended his views in संवाद concerning the दो मुख्य संसार प्रणालियों, जिससे appeared to attack Pope Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the Jesuits, who had both supported Galileo up until this point.
He was tried by the inquisition, मिला `` ओजस्वी suspect of heresy '', forced to recant, and spent the rest of his life under house arrest.
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote one of उसके finest works, दो नई sciences, in जिससे he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier, on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials.
55 '' LG oled TV showcased at CES 2012
Prototype OLED lighting फलक विकसित by Lumiotec
demonstration of a flexible OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film of सशुल्क यौगिक जिससे emits लाइट in response to an electric current.
This परत of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between two electrodes.
generally, at least one of these electrodes is transparent.
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as टेलीविज़न screens, कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर, पोर्टेबल प्रणालियों such as mobile phones, handheld games consoles and PDAs.
A major area of research is the development of श्वेत oled डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting applications.
There are two main families of OLEDs : those आधारित on छोटी अणुओं और those employing polymers.
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or लैक, जिससे has a slightly different mode of operation.
OLED displays can use either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix addressing schemes.
Active-matrix oleds ( amoled ) आवश्यकता a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत पिक्सेल on or off, but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes.
An OLED display works बगैर a backlight.
Thus, it can display deep black levels and can be thinner और हल्का than a द्रव क्रिस्टल display ( LCD ).
in कम परिवेश लाइट शर्तें ऐसे as a अंधेरा रूम an oled स्क्रीन can achieve a उच्चतर कंट्रास्ट ratio than an LCD, whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal, Canada, showing its French facade ( अंग्रेज़ी रिवर्स ) और the फ्रेंच पद लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः, `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally बना साथ मिल्क and/or मलाई, शुगर, और whipped अंडे ( जिससे gives it a frothy texture ).
Brandy, rum, whisky, bourbon, वोदका, or a संयोजन of liquors are often added.
The finished serving is often garnished साथ a sprinkling of ground cinnamon or nutmeg.
It was also known as the अंडा मिल्क पंच.
eggnog is a लोकप्रिय पेय throughout the United States and Canada, and is usually associated with Christmas.
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to खाना or पेय ऐसे as coffee and tea.
Eggnog as a कस्टर्ड can भी be used as an ice cream base.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish pasty, and in the United States as a pastie or British pasty ) is a baked pastry, a traditional variety of जिससे is विशेषकर संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल, the westernmost county in England.
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables, बगैर मांस in शाकाहारी संस्करण, on a चपटा पेस्ट्री वृत्त और फोल्डिंग it to wrap the filling, crimping the edge to form a seal.
After baking, the result is a raised semicircular comestible.
The traditional cornish pasty, जिससे रै सुरक्षित भौगोलिक indication ( PGI ) status in Europe, is filled with beef, sliced or diced potato, swede ( also known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) and onion, seasoned with salt and pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the खाना सबसे संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल, it is regarded as the national dish, and it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish food economy.
Pasties with many अलग fillings हैं बना ; कुछ shops specialise in selling all sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty are unclear, though वहीँ हैं अनेक सन्दर्भ to उन्हें throughout historical documents and fiction.
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the स्प्रेड of cornish खनिक, और विसंगतियाँ can be मिला in Australia, the United States, Mexico and elsewhere.
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली : the अन्य being the enteric and parasympathetic systems.
Its general action is to mobilize the देह 's बेचैन system fight-or-flight response.
It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
सुरक्षित डिजिटल or ( sd ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices, such as mobile phones, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD Card संघ ( sda ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी और more than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital format शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग रूप कारकों.
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ), the High-Capacity ( SDHC ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), और the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
the तीन रूप कारकों are the original size, the `` mini '' size, and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of form कारकों और यंत्र परिवारों.
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a मेजबान यंत्र निर्मित to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards, but this article explains अनेक कारकों कि can prevent the उपयोग of a नए SD card:
A नए कार्ड may प्रस्ताव वृहद capacity than the host device can handle.
A नए कार्ड may उपयोग a संचिका system the host device can not navigate.
Use of an sdio कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed for the input/output functions the card provides.
The संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda था मानकीकृत a method of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with इसके विशेषताएँ और assure उपयोक्ता of compatibility.
The following is a सूची of आलोचकों of the New Deal.
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born February 17, 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the केबल guy, is an अमरीकी stand-up हास्य, कर्ता, देश म्यूज़िक कलाकार, आवाज़ कर्ता, and former radio personality.
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour, a comedy troupe which included Bill Engvall, Ron White, and Jeff Foxworthy ( with जिसको he रै स्ट्रक्चर on Blue Collar TV ).
Whitney has released seven कॉमेडी एल्बम, of जिससे तीन have महरूम certified सुनहरा by the RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies.
in जोड, he रै स्ट्रक्चर in तीन ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी tour-related फिल्मों, as खूब as in the films लैरी the Cable Guy : Health Inspector, Delta Farce, and Witless Protection, as well as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` git-r-done ! '' is भी the शीर्षक of his book.
On January 26, 2010, the TV channel History announced that it was ordering a series starring Whitney called तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the केबल guy, in जिससे he होता explore the देश and immerse himself in different lifestyles, jobs, and hobbies.
The first episode of the श्रेणी aired on फ़रवरी 8, 2011.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट.
In humans, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as वे constitute कया we जान as विटामिन D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence इसके उपनाम, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by सबसे स्तनधारियों उजागर to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can नहीं synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर receive it in their diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin D was खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other compounds called vitamins, in the developed संसार विटामिन d is added to स्टेपल भोजन, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब as सेवन इससे the आहार, और it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The प्रमाण indicates कि the संश्लेषण of विटामिन d इससे सूर्य एक्सपोज़र works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप कि रोकता toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine, USA, for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is इससे उनके आहार, हालांकि that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( इन ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for अन्य उद्देश्य, ऐसे as the अप्रसार, differentiation और apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence for other health प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation in the सामान्य population is inconsistent.
The best evidence of benefit is for bone स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in mortality in elderly women.
मानक रूप of the periodic table.
the रंगों represent अलग categories of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements, organized on the basis of their atomic numbers, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, और पुनरावर्ती रासायनिक properties.
तत्व हैं प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main देह of तत्व, positioned ऊपर a छोटी double row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into four आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the left, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह, साथ कुछ of ये having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic table incorporates recurring trends, any such table can be used to derive relationships between the गुण of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the गुण of नई, yet to be खोजा or synthesized, तत्व.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और ऐसे टेबल हैं widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the गुण of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted कुछ गुण of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved सही जब the elements in question were subsequently discovered.
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new तत्व और the विकास of नई सैद्धांतिक मॉडल to बताइये रासायनिक बर्ताव.
All elements from परमाणु संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, although some are found only in trace amounts और यहूद initially खोजा by synthesis in laboratories.
The elements after 98 have तभी महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of ongoing debate.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minimum wage by u.S. राज्य और u.S. territory ( American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands ), as of Jan. 1, 2013.
in the संयुक्त राज्य, मजदूर हैं generally entitled to be paid no less than the statutory minimum wage.
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per hour, while कुछ राज्य और municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर उच्चतर than the federal level, with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013.
Among those paid by the hour in 2012, 1.6 million were reported as earning exactly the प्रचलित संघीय minimum wage.
परिचय 2.0 लाख यहूद reported as earning wages below the minimum.
Together, these 3.6 million workers with मजदूरी at or नीचे the न्यूनतम बना up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers.
A चयन of bourbons और टेनेसी whiskeys offered at a liquor store in Decatur, Georgia
evan विलियम्स bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American whiskey – a barrel-aged distilled स्पिरिट बना primarily इससे मकई.
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association साथ an क्षेत्रफल ज्ञात as बूढ़ा bourbon, around कया is अभी bourbon काउंटी, केंटकी ( which, in turn, was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
It has महरूम उत्पादित since the 18th century.
While it may be बना anywhere in the संयुक्त राज्य, it is strongly associated with the American South in general, and Kentucky in particular.
The Mona Lisa ( La gioconda or la joconde ) is a half-length पोर्ट्रेट of a स्त्री by the इतालवी कलाकार लियोनार्डो da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as `` the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world. ''
The painting, thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of Francesco del giocondo, is in आयल on a poplar फलक, और is believed to have महरूम painted between 1503 and 1506.
It was acquired by किंग फ्रांसिस i of फ़्रांस और is अभी the प्रॉपर्टी of the French Republic, on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797.
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression, which is frequently described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the संयोजन, the हल्का मॉडलिंग of फ़ॉर्म और the वायुमंडलीय illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19 January 1949 – 26 सितंबर 2003 ), थी an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter and musician.
He was known for his distinctive आवाज़ और the eclectic मिक्सर of musical शैलियाँ on उसके एल्बम, combining soul, jazz, rock, pop, reggae and blues.
He found success both in his solo career and in the musical act The शक्ति स्टेशन, और था शीर्ष 10 गीतों in both the UK and the US.
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and `` Simply Irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing महिलाओं साथ पाले चेहरों, अंधेरा नजर मेकअप और उज्जवल रेड लिपस्टिक, जिससे resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel, an artist popular in the 1980s.
Sharp-suited, his involvement in the music industry commenced in the 1960s, covered पाँच दशकों और शामिल a वर्तनी with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, और थी twice मनोनीत लिये the ब्रिट पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों Male.
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial and venous बरतन throughout the देह.
This सीमाएँ इससे धमनियों सेवारत the दिमाग to those bringing blood to the lungs, kidneys, arms and legs.
The Champs-Élysées सजा साथ flags for Bastille Day
Horseman of the French Republican गार्ड दौरान the 2007 सैन्य परेड on the Champs-Élysées.
prise de la bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
bastille दिन is the नाम दिए in english-speaking countries to the French National Day, which is celebrated on the 14th of July each year.
In France, it is formally called La Fête Nationale ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of जुलाई ).
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération, held on the first वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille on 14 जुलाई 1789 ; the वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison थी देखी as a प्रतीक of the uprising of the आधुनिक nation, and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic, during the French Revolution.
Festivities and official ceremonies are आयोजित सब over फ़्रांस.
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 जुलाई, on the champs-élysées एवेन्यू in पेरिस in सामने of the अध्यक्ष of the गणतंत्र, फ्रेंच officials and foreign guests.
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ), commonly called the United States ( US or u.S. ) or अमेरिका, is a संघीय गणतंत्र consisting of fifty states and a federal district.
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of Washington, d.C. हैं in सेंट्रल उत्तर अमेरिका between कनाडा और Mexico.
The state of Alaska is वेस्ट of कनाडा और ईस्ट of रूस आरपार the Bering Strait, and the state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific.
The country also has five populated और नौ unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean.
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people, the संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or fourth-largest देश by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the third-largest by दोनो land area and population.
It is one of the संसार 's सबसे ethnically विविध और multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries.
The geography और जलवायु of the u.S. is भी अत्यधिक विविध, with deserts, plains, forests, and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species.
Paleoindians migrated from Asia to what is now the संयुक्त राज्य मेनलैंड around 15,000 years ago.
बाद 1500, बूढ़ा संसार रोगों introduced by Europeans greatly reduced their populations.
European colonization began around 1600 और आए ज़्यादातर इससे इंग्लैण्ड.
The United States emerged from thirteen अंग्रेजों colonies स्तिथ along the Atlantic seaboard.
Disputes between Great ब्रिटेन और the अमरीकी colonies led to the American Revolution.
On July 4, 1776, delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously जारी the घोषणा of Independence, which established the United States of America.
The American Revolutionary War, which ended with the recognition of independence of the United States इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, थी the पहला कामयाब युद्ध of independence against a European colonial empire.
The current Constitution was adopted on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven amendments have चूंकि महरूम added to the संविधान.
The first ten amendments, collectively नामित the विधेयक of अधिकारों, यहूद ratified in 1791 and guarantee many fundamental civil rights and freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny, the United States embarked on a vigorous expansion across उत्तर अमेरिका throughout the 19th सदी.
This involved displacing देशी जनजातियों, acquiring new territories, and gradually admitting new states.
The American Civil War ended legalized गुलामी in the संयुक्त States.
By the end of the nineteenth century, the संयुक्त राज्य विस्तारित into the प्रशांत समंदर, and its economy was the world 's largest.
The Spanish–American War and confirmed the country 's औकात as a वैश्विक सैन्य power.
The United States emerged from as a global superpower, the first country with nuclear weapons, and a स्थाई सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र Security Council.
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union left the United राज्य as the एकमात्र महाशक्ति.
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest नेशनल अर्थव्यवस्था, साथ an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010, हालांकि अमेरिका 's माल असमानता थी भी क्रमित उच्चतम among OECD countries by the World Bank.
The economy is fueled by an प्रचुरता of प्राकृतिक संसाधन, a well-developed अवसंरचना, and high productivity ; and while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers.
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending, और is a अग्रणी आर्थिक, राजनैतिक, और सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार, as well as a leader in scientific research and technological innovation.
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States, फिलहाल featuring 68 कॉलेज बास्केट teams, to determine the national championship of the major college basketball teams.
The tournament, organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ), was created during 1939 by the नेशनल संघ of बास्केट कोच, और थी the विचार of ओहियो राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों coach Harold Olsen.
निभाई ज़्यादातर दौरान कूच, it is ज्ञात informally as कूच दीवानगी or the बिग नृत्य, and has become one of the most famous annual sporting events in the United States.
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle Organizing Committee for starting the March Madness जश्न दौरान 1984.
The tournament teams include champions इससे 31 प्रभाग i सम्मेलनों ( which receive automatic bids ), and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' teams are chosen by an NCAA चयन कमेटी, as विस्तृत नीचे.
The 64 टीमों हैं विभाजित into चार regions और व्यवस्थित into a सिंगल विलोपन `` bracket '', which predetermines, when a team wins a game, which team it will face next.
Each team is `` seeded '', or क्रमित, भीतर its region.
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked टीमों, the टूर्नामेंट occurs दौरान the कोर्स of three weekends, at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States.
Lower-ranked teams हैं लगाई in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध higher ranked teams.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a round of 64, to a `` मीठी सोलह '', और लिये the पिछला वीकेंड of the टूर्नामेंट a फाइनल चार ; the फाइनल चार is प्रायः निभाई during the first weekend of April.
These four teams, one from each region, then compete in एक स्थान लिये the नेशनल championship.
The tournament has been at least partially televised चूंकि 1969.
Presently, the games are reported by सीबीएस, tbs, टीएनटी, और trutv by the trade-name NCAA March Madness.
Since 2011, सब खेल हैं उपलब्धियाँ for viewing nationwide.
As टेलीविज़न कवरेज रै grown, so too has the tournament 's popularity.
Presently, millions of अमेरिकी `` भरण आउट a कोष्ठक '', predicting winners of all 67 games.
With 11 national titles, UCLA has the record for the most NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of इसके 11 शीर्षक.
The University of Kentucky is second, with 8 national titles, while Indiana University and the विश्वविद्यालयों of उत्तर कैरोलिना are tied for third with 5 national titles.
Duke विश्वविद्यालयों बाँधने fifth with 4 national titles.
A sample of सिंथेटिक मोटर oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of रासायनिक यौगिकों कि हैं artificially made ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil, but can also be synthesized इससे अन्य कच्चा सामग्री.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of तापमान, क्युकी, in सामान्य, it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical और रासायनिक properties than those found in traditional mineral oils.
Aircraft jet engines, for example, require the use of synthetic oils, whereas वायुयान पिस्टन इंजन do नहीं.
Jackass is an American reality series, originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002, featuring people performing विभिन्न खतरनाक, crude self-injuring स्टंट and pranks.
The show served as a launchpad लिये the टेलीविज़न और एक्टिंग करियर of bam margera, steve-o, and also Johnny Knoxville, who previously had only a few minor acting roles.
Since 2002, three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV corporate sibling सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें, continuing the मताधिकार after its run on television.
The show sparked several spin-offs including चिरायु la bam, wildboyz, homewrecker, Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid.
The show placed # 68 on entertainment साप्ताहिक `` नई tv क्लासिक '' list.
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3, 1952 ) is an American अभिनेत्री, comedienne, लेखक, टेलीविज़न निर्माता, निदेशक, और 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party.
Barr began उसके करियर in stand-up कॉमेडी at क्लब पहले gaining fame for her role in the sitcom Roseanne.
The show was a hit and lasted नौ सीज़न, from 1988 to 1997.
She won both an Emmy and a Golden ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके कार्य on the show.
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class घरेलू देवी '' persona in the आठ सालो preceding उसके sitcom और चाही to do a यथार्थवादी show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism.
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe और रूस, barr थी the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी नमक झील नगर परिवार ; she was also active in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she married Bill Pentland, with whom she had three children, before divorcing in 1990 और marrying हास्य tom अर्नाल्ड लिये चार सालो.
Controversy arose when she sang `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired बेसबॉल खेल, followed by grabbing उसके crotch और spitting.
After her sitcom ended, she शुभारम्भ उसके own talk show, The Roseanne Show, which aired from 1998 to 2000.
in 2005, वो लौटे to stand-up comedy with a world tour.
In 2011, she starred in an unscripted TV show, Roseanne 's nuts, कि lasted इससे जुलाई to सितंबर of कि साल, परिचय उसके जीवन on a Hawaiian farm.
In early 2012, Barr announced her उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of the Green Party.
barr खोया the nomination to Jill Stein.
She then sought the presidential nomination of the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी, जिससे she won on August 4, 2012.
Barr प्राप्त 61,971 मत in the general election, placing sixth overall.
francesco albani 's 17th सदी बपतिस्मा of Christ is a typical depiction with the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove.
The baptism of Jesus marks the शुरूआत of his public ministry.
This event is recorded in the canonical gospels of Matthew, Mark and ल्यूक.
John 's gospel does not describe यीशु ' बपतिस्मा, लकिन जॉन the बैपटिस्ट करता गवाही of the other things in.
In the New Testament, John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of पापों ( ), और घोषित खुद a forerunner of he कि would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ).
In so doing he थी तैयारी the way for Jesus.
Jesus आए to the जॉर्डन नदी where he was baptized by John.
The baptismal झाँकी शामिल the आकाश खोलने, a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit, and a voice from heaven saying, `` This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. ''
Most आधुनिक विद्वानों दृश्य the फैक्ट कि यीशु थी baptized by John as an historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain तथ्य परिचय उसे, और प्रायः उपयोग it as the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus.
The baptism is one of the five major माइलस्टोन in the इन्जील कथा of the जीवन of यीशु, the others being the Transfiguration, Crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension.
Most ईसाई denominations दृश्य the बपतिस्मा of Jesus as an important event and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ).
In Eastern Christianity, Jesus ' baptism is commemorated on 6 जनवरी, the feast of epiphany.
In the Roman Catholic Church, the Anglican Communion, the Lutheran Churches and some other Western denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the Lord.
In Roman Catholicism, the baptism of Jesus is एक of the चमकदार रहस्यों sometimes added to the Rosary.
It is a Trinitarian feast in the पूर्वी Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a रूप of विटामिन b12.
Physically it resembles the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12, occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the दिमाग और बेचैन प्रणाली, and for the formation of blood.
it is एक of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, especially affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और विनियमन, लकिन भी वसीय एसिड संश्लेषण और energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor animals are capable of producing विटामिन b12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis, हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally जटिल विटामिन और can be उत्पादित industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), सब of जिससे have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically विरल तत्व cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन परिवर्तन between अलग फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a खाना योगात्मक, because of its stability and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
अधिक recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
the अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी of these is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the पेट जिम्मेदार लिये secreting मूलभूत factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12, so a lack of intrinsic factor, as seen in घातक रक्ताल्पता, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
अनेक अन्य subtler kinds of विटामिन B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 युद्ध फिल्मी उत्पादित, निर्देशित और co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The short-timers और सितारों Matthew Modine, Vincent D'Onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, Arliss Howard, and Adam Baldwin.
the फिल्मी follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War.
The film 's title refers to the पूरा मेटल जैकेट bullet used by infantry riflemen.
The film received नाजुक acclaim.
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted पटकथा लिये kubrick, माइकल हेर और Gustav Hasford.
In 2001, the American Film Institute placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in their `` AFI 's 100 सालो... 100 thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a हस्ती न्यूज जालस्थल that debuted on November 8, 2005.
It was a collaboration between AOL and Telepictures Productions, a प्रभाग of warner भाईs., जबतक समय warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained affiliated with AOL न्यूज और रै the एओएल न्यूज लोगो affixed in the upper right corner.
The name TMZ स्टैंड लिये the ऐतिहासिक `` स्टुडियो मण्डल `` or 30-mile मण्डल दायरा from the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles.
TMZ 's managing editor is घनघोर levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist जो was previously a legal expert for the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV.
The site claims that it करता नहीं अदा लिये कहानियां or साक्षात्कार ; however, levin रै admitted कि tmz करता `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories ''.
Levin has stated कि `` सबकुछ is शोधकार्य and vetted for accuracy. ''
A companion TV series, TMZ on TV, debuted on सितंबर 10, 2007.
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by Kevin Williamson, directed by Wes Craven and written by Ehren Kruger, starring Neve कैम्पबेल, courteney कॉक्स arquette और दाउद arquette.
It was released on February 4, 2000 as the तीसरा किश्त in the Scream film series.
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the कार्यक्रम of the पिछला दो films लकिन is drawn to हॉलीवुड बाद a नई ghostface begins हत्या the डाल of the फिल्मी within a film `` Stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher विधा साथ कॉमेडी और `` whodunit `` रहस्य while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the previous Scream films, there was an increased emphasis on comedic elements और the हिंसा और हॉरर थी घटाया in जवाब to increased पब्लिक scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre.
The film was the concluding chapter of the Scream series जबतक it थी revived साथ a sequel, Scream 4, in 2011.
Williamson provided a five-page outline for two sequels to चीख जब auctioning उसके असली स्क्रिप्ट, hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's प्रतिज्ञाओं to अन्य प्रोजेक्ट meant he थी असमर्थ to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties were undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's notes.
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to direct and स्कोर the फिल्मी क्रमशः as वे had with the previous two series entries.
उत्पादन थी troubled साथ स्क्रिप्ट rewrites, साथ पृष्ठों sometimes only ready on the day of filming, and scheduling difficulties with the main cast.
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse than its preceding films, earning over $ 161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become कया चीख originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite negative आलोचना the फिल्मी किया receive praise with reviewers calling it the perfect end to the Scream trilogy.
As of 2012, the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर अमेरिका, following चीख at क्रमांक 1 और Scream 2 at number 2.
the फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक थी well-received, बिता fourteen weeks on the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of # 32.
Shoulder impingement syndrome, also called painful arc syndrome, supraspinatus syndrome, swimmer 's कंधे, और thrower 's कंधे, is a नैदानिक सिंड्रोम जिससे occurs जब the tendons of the rotator कफ मांसपेशियां become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
This can परिणाम in पीड़ा, कमज़ोरी and loss of movement at the shoulder.
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC Comics from January 1997 to अप्रैल 2006 featuring the Justice League.
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of European settlements from the start of colonization of America until उनके incorporation into the संयुक्त राज्य.
In the late 16th century, England, France, Spain and the नीदरलैंड्स शुभारम्भ प्रमुख colonization कार्यक्रम in पूर्वी उत्तर America.
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost उपनिवेश of roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत rate of the first arrivals was very high.
Nevertheless successful colonies यहूद स्थापित.
European settlers came from a किस्में of सोशल और धार्मिक groups.
No aristocrats settled permanently, लकिन a क्रमांक of adventurers, soldiers, farmers, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland, the Swedes and finns of नई स्वीडन, the अंग्रेज़ी quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया, the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of नई इंग्लैण्ड, the अंग्रेज़ी settlers of jamestown, और the `` worthy ग़रीब '' of जॉर्जिया, आए to the नई महाद्वीप and built colonies with distinctive social, religious, political and economic styles.
Occasionally one उपनिवेश took कंट्रोल of another ( during wars between their European parents ).
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of कनाडा ) किया the conquerors expel the previous colonists.
बजाय वे सब lived side by side in peace.
There यहूद no प्रमुख सिविल युद्धों among the 13 colonies, और the दो मुख्य हथियारबंद विद्रोहों ( in Virginia in 1676 and in New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures.
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars and Father rale 's युद्ध —were तूल, और शामिल French-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
By 1760 France was defeated and the अंग्रेजों जब्त इसके colonies.
The four distinct regions यहूद : नई इंग्लैण्ड, the Middle Colonies, the Chesapeake Bay Colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South.
Some इतिहासकारों add a पांचवां प्रदेश, the frontier, जिससे was never separately organized.
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated by नई रोगों, introduced to उन्हें दशकों पहले by explorers and sailors.
See timeline of Colonial America लिये सूची of ऐतिहासिक कार्यक्रम.
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार, author, actress, heiress, and socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans.
वो is a सदस्य of the prominent वेंडरबिल्ट family of New York and the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper.
यूनानियों ( रोमनाइजेशन of greek| ), officially the हैलेनिक Republic ( ' ), is a country in Southeast Europe.
According to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 million.
Athens is the nation 's capital and largest city, इसके शहरी क्षेत्रफल भी including Piraeus.
Greece is strategically स्तिथ at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय, एशिया, the मध्य ईस्ट, और अफ़्रीकी, and has land borders with Albania, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north, and Turkey to the northeast.
The ईजियन समुद्र झूठ to the ईस्ट of मेनलैंड Greece, the Ionian Sea to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south.
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length, featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400, of which 227 are inhabited ), सहित क्रेट, the dodecanese, the cyclades, और the आयोनियन Islands among others.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of kyu, of जिससे माउंट ओलम्पस is the highest at.
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of प्राचीन यूनानियों, generally माना the cradle of Western civilization.
As such, it is the birthplace of democracy, Western philosophy, the Olympic Games, Western literature and historiography, political science, प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और गणितीय सिद्धान्त, और पश्चिमी नाटक, सहित दोनो त्रासदी और कॉमेडी.
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO World विरासत साइट स्तिथ in यूनानियों, रैंकिंग it 7th in यूरोपीय और 13th in the world.
The modern Greek state was established in 1830, following the यूनानी युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता.
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations, has been a member of what is अभी the यूरोपीय संघ चूंकि 1981 ( और the eurozone चूंकि 2001 ), और रै been a member of NATO since 1952.
यूनानियों is a विकसित देश साथ an उन्नत, high-income economy and very high standards of living, including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010.
Greece 's economy is also the largest in the Balkans, where यूनानियों is an महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रीय investor.
A prime meridian is a meridian, i.e. a line of longitude, at जिससे देशांतर is पारिभाषित to be 0°.
A prime meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system, the 180th मध्याह्न ( at 180° देशांतर ), रूप a great circle.
This great वृत्त divides the गोला, e.g. the Earth, into two hemispheres.
If one uses directions of East and West from a defined प्रधान मध्याह्न, तब वे can be पुकारा Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere.
Gerardus Mercator in his एटलस cosmographicae ( 1595 ) उपयोग a प्रधान मध्याह्न कही बंद to 25°w, passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic.
His 180th मध्याह्न रनों साथ the जलसन्धि of anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary, unlike an equator, which is determined by the axis of rotation—and विभिन्न प्रथाओं have महरूम प्रयुक्त or advocated in different regions and throughout history.
Minka dumont केली ( born minka Dumont Dufay ; June 24, 1980 ) is an American actress.
She is perhaps best known for her roles in Charlie 's Angels, Friday रात्रि लाइट्स, और the रूममेट.
R.O.B. ( Robotic Operating Buddy ), released in Japan as the, is an accessory लिये the निन्टेंडो entertainment System ( NES ).
It was released in July 1985 in जापानी और बाद कि year in North America.
It had a short उत्पाद जीवनकाल, साथ support for only two games which comprised the `` Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment प्रणाली as कुछ अनोखा in अनुक्रम to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. was available in the डीलक्स नियत, a विन्यास लिये the console that included, among other things, R.O.B. and Gyromite.
Stack-Up was purchased separately और शामिल इसके अपना शारीरिक game pieces.
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece or half डालर सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट इससे 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman.
In 1915, the new Mint Director, Robert W. Woolley, came to believe that he was not only allowed लकिन जरूरी by विधि to बदलें coin designs that had been in use for 25 years.
He therefore began the प्रक्रम of replacing the नाई coinage : dimes, quarters और हाफ डॉलर, all bearing similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber, and first struck in 1892.
Woolley had the Commission of ठीक कला conduct a प्रतियोगिता, as a परिणाम of which Weinman was selected to design the dime and half dollar.
Weinman 's design of स्वतंत्रता striding towards the सूर्य लिये the हाफ डालर proved difficult to perfect, and Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo, whose department included the Mint, considered having Barber create his own design.
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into उत्पादन, हालांकि it never struck बहुत खूब, जिससे may have महरूम a factor in its replacement by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948.
Nevertheless, art इतिहासकार कॉर्नेलियस vermeule माना the piece to be among the most beautiful US coins.
Since 1986, a modification of Weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी Silver Eagle.
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( SUV ) produced by the जापानी निर्माता टोयोटा और बेची throughout the संसार इससे 1984 to present.
In Japan it थी ज्ञात as the टोयोटा Hilux Surf.
The original 4Runner was a कॉम्पैक्ट एसयूवी और छोटी अधिक than a टोयोटा पिकअप ट्रक साथ a fiberglass शेल over the bed, लकिन the मॉडल has since undergone significant independent development into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV.
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in Tahara, Aichi, जापानी, or at hino मोटर्स ' hamura, जापानी संयंत्र, और in ब्राज़ील.
Its mid-size क्रॉसओवर एसयूवी बंटवारा is the Toyota Highlander.
This आलेख सौदे साथ आयुर्विज्ञान as practiced by प्रशिक्षित professionals from ancient times to the present.
The ancient Egyptians had a प्रणाली of आयुर्विज्ञान कि थी very advanced for its time and influenced later medical traditions.
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the concepts of निदान, prognosis, और medical examination.
The Greeks went even further, and उन्नत as खूब चिकित्सा ethics.
The hippocratic शपथ, स्टिल लिया by डॉक्टर आज, थी written in Greece in the 5th century BCE.
In the मध्यकालीन era, सर्जिकल practices inherited from the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in Rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery.
Universities began व्यवस्थित प्रशिक्षण of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy.
During the Renaissance, understanding of anatomy improved, और the सूक्ष्मदर्शी थी invented.
The germ theory of बीमारी in the 19th सदी led to cures for many infectious diseases.
Military doctors advanced the methods of trauma उपचार और surgery.
Public health उपायों यहूद विकसित विशेषकर in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures.
Advanced research centers opened in the early 20th century, often कनेक्ट साथ प्रमुख अस्पताल.
The mid-20th century was characterized by नई biological उपचार, ऐसे as एंटीबायोटिक.
These advancements, along with developments in chemistry, आनुवंशिकी, और lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( ऐसे as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine.
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century, and new careers opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) और as physicians ( विशेषकर बाद 1970 ).
The 21st century is characterized by very advanced research involving numerous fields of science.
The Hippocratic Corpus, is a collection of early medical works from प्राचीन यूनानियों strongly संबद्ध साथ the प्राचीन यूनानी चिकित्सक हिपोक्रेटिस और उसके teachings.
Potassium is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक k ( इससे Neo-Latin kalium ) and atomic number 19.
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air और is बहुत प्रतिक्रिया साथ जल, generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Because potassium और सोडियम हैं chemically very similar, their salts were not at first differentiated.
the अस्तित्व of अनेक तत्व in उनके लवण was suspected from 1702, and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis.
Potassium in nature occurs तभी in ionic salts.
As such, it is found dissolved in seawater ( जिससे is 0.04 % पोटैशियम by weight ), and is part of many minerals.
Most industrial chemical applications of potassium employ the relatively high solubility in जल of पोटैशियम यौगिकों, ऐसे as potassium soaps.
Potassium metal has only a few special applications, होने replaced in सबसे रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ सोडियम metal.
Potassium ions हैं जरुरी for the function of all living cells.
Potassium ion diffusion is a कुंजी यांत्रिकी in तंत्रिका हस्तांतरण, और पोटैशियम depletion in animals, including humans, results in various cardiac dysfunctions.
Potassium accumulates in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं, और यूँ fresh fruits and vegetables are a good dietary source of it.
Conversely, most पौधे मगर विशेषज्ञ halophytes are intolerant of salt, and sodium is present in them only in low concentration.
This resulted in पोटैशियम पहला होने पृथक from potash, the ashes of plants, giving the element its name.
For the same reason, भारी क्रॉप उत्पादन rapidly depletes soils of पोटैशियम, और agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global potassium chemical production.
the सिंगापुर डालर or dollar ( sign : $ ; code : SGD ) is the official currency of Singapore.
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $, or alternatively s $ to फर्क it from other dollar -denominated currencies.
It is divided into 100 सेंट.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of their दो मुद्राएँ, the singaporean डालर और the Brunei dollar, respectively.
The dollar is स्वीकृत as `` प्रथागत टेंडर '' in ब्रुनेई according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement.
Likewise, the Brunei dollar is customarily स्वीकृत in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) थी an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री, theorist and empirical researcher, based chiefly at the University of Chicago.
He was elected president of the अमरीकी समाजशास्त्रीय संघ.
Coleman studied the समाजशास्त्र of शिक्षा, पब्लिक नीति, और थी एक of the earliest users of the term `` social capital ``.
His मूलाधार of सोशल सिद्धान्त influenced sociological theory.
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( समता of शैक्षणिक अवसर, 1966 ) यहूद दो of the most heavily cited books in educational sociology.
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory, reshape national education नीतियों, और बहकावे पब्लिक और scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States.
Superman ( from DC comics ) was the first सुपरहीरो निर्मित, आर्ट by जिम Lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super नायिका ) is a प्रकार of भण्डार अक्षर possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public.
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938, कहानियां of superheroes—ranging इससे ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media.
The word itself तिथियाँ to at तनिक 1917.
A female superhero is sometimes called a superheroine ( भी rendered super-heroine or सुपर नायिका ).
`` SUPER HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned by dc कॉमिक्स और आश्चर्य Comics.
By most परिभाषाएं, वर्ण do नहीं सख्ती आवश्यकता वास्तविक superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes, although terms such as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits.
Such characters were generally referred to as `` रहस्य मेन '' in the so-called सुनहरी आयु of कॉमिक किताबे to distinguish them from characters with super-powers.
सामान्यतः, superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating threats against humanity by supervillains, their criminal counterparts.
Often, one of ये supervillains होगा be the superhero 's archenemy.
As well, some longrunning superheroes, ऐसे as सुपरमैन, बैटमैन, spider-man और आयरन man प्रत्येक has a rogues gallery of enemies.
As well, superheroes sometimes will कॉम्बैट ऐसे irregular खतरे as एलियंस, magical/ fantasy entities, American war enemies such as nazism or communism, and godlike or demonic creatures.
The following is a historical list of actors and primary अक्षर भूमिकाएँ जिससे appear on the अमरीकी साबुन ओपेरा One Life to Live.
The Shawshank मोचन is a 1994 अमरीकी नाटक film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of एंडी dufresne, a बैंकर जो खर्च nearly दो दशकों in shawshank राज्य थाना लिये the हत्या of उसके बीवी और उसके प्रेमी despite उसके दावा of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, ellis boyd `` रेड '' redding, और पाता खुद सुरक्षित by the गार्ड after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation.
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget, the film received favorable reviews इससे आलोचकों, अनेक पुरस्कार nominations, और रै चूंकि enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It थी शामिल in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's 100 Years... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition.
IT management is the अनुशासन whereby सब of the प्रौद्योगिकी संसाधन of a firm are managed in accordance with its needs and priorities.
These resources may include tangible investments like computer hardware, तन्त्र, आंकड़ा, संजाल और data centre facilities, as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them.
Managing this responsibility within a कम्पनी entails अनेक of the मौलिक प्रबन्धन कृत्यों, जैसे budgeting, staffing, and organizing and controlling, along with other aspects that are unique to technology, like change management, software design, network planning, tech support etc.
The Penitentiary of नई मैक्सिको थाना riot, जिससे took प्लेस on फ़रवरी 2 और 3, 1980, in the राज्य 's maximum security prison south of Santa Fe, was one of the most violent prison riots in the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries.
None of the 12 अधिकारियों लिया बंधक यहूद मारे, लकिन seven were treated for injuries caused by beatings and rapes.
This was the third major riot at the nm राज्य penitentiary, the पहला occurring on 19 जुलाई 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953.
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have महरूम उच्चतर, as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem.
`` Red कार्डिनल '' redirects here.
लिये the संयंत्र erythrina herbacea, see Coral Bean.
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a उत्तर अमरीकी बर्ड in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal.
It can be found in southern Canada, through the eastern United राज्य इससे maine to टेक्सास और दक्षिण through मैक्सिको.
It is found in woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
The उत्तरी कार्डिनल is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the फेस जिससे is ब्लैक in the पुरूष और gray in the female.
The पुरूष is a हर्षोल्लास red, while the female is a dull red-brown shade.
The उत्तरी कार्डिनल is मुख्यतः granivorous, but also feeds on insects and fruit.
The पुरूष behaves territorially, marking out his territory with song.
During courtship, the पुरूष फ़ीड्स बीज to the मादा beak-to-beak.
A clutch of तीन to चार अंडे is रखी, और दो to four clutches are produced each year.
It was once prized as a pet, but its sale as cage birds is now बैन in the संयुक्त राज्य by the migratory बर्ड Treaty Act of 1918.
Surface runoff, also called nonpoint सोर्स प्रदूषण, इससे a फार्म field in Iowa during a rain storm.
Topsoil as well as फार्म fertilizers और अन्य संभावित pollutants run off unprotected farm fields when heavy rains occur.
Topsoil is the upper, outermost layer of soil, usually the top to.
It has the highest concentration of सशुल्क पदार्थ और microorganisms और is where most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in schoenberg 's sechs kleine klavierstücke, Op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
Note that the notes do not come in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन हैं सब सटा ( नहीं अलग by other notes ).
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of टुकड़े लिये सोलो piano written by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
McAfee, Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software company headquartered in Santa Clara, California, और the संसार 's largest समर्पित सुरक्षा प्रौद्योगिकी कम्पनी.
As of February 28, 2011, McAfee is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of Intel.
McAfee 's प्रतिस्पर्धी in the एंटीवायरस उद्योग are Avira, BitDefender, BullGuard, F-Secure, Frisk, Kaspersky, Symantec, and Trend Micro to name a few.
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - May 22, 1457 ) was an Italian Augustinian nun, widow and saint venerated in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर.
Rita was married at an जल्दी आयु.
The marriage lasted for 18 years, during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model बीवी और माँ जो बना प्रयत्न to बदलें उसके husband from his abusive behavior.
Upon the हत्या of उसके husband by another feuding family, she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of धार्मिक बहनों, जहाँ वो थी ज्ञात लिये practicing mortification of the flesh, along with the apparent efficacy of her prayers.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession, and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her माथे, जिससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर दावा to have महरूम a partial stigmata.
The Roman Catholic Church, under the pontificate of Pope leo xiii officially canonized रीता on may 24, 1900, while her feast day is celebrated every May 22.
In many परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक देशों, रीता is known to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women.
North America is a continent wholly within the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और लगभग wholly within the Western Hemisphere.
It is also considered a northern उपमहाद्वीप of the americas.
It is bordered to the उत्तर by the आर्कटिक समंदर, to the ईस्ट by the अटलांटिक समंदर, to the वेस्ट और south by the Pacific Ocean, and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea.
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers ( 9,540,000 वर्गाकार मील ), परिचय 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's सतह or about 16.5 % of its land area.
As of July 2008, its population थी अनुमानित at nearly 529 लाख लोगों across 23 independent states, representing about 7.5 % of the human population.
North America is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia and Africa, and the चौथी in जनसांख्यिकी बाद एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, और यूरोपीय.
The first people to live in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद paleoindians who began to arrive during the last glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge.
They differentiated into a क्रमांक of विविध संस्कृतियों और communities across the continent.
The largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian civilizations in North अमेरिका यहूद the aztecs in कया is अभी मैक्सिको और the Mayans in Central America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries, wiping आउट विशाल संख्याएँ of the native populations and beginning an era of European dominance.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28, 1985 ), better known by his stage name J. कोल, is an अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार and record producer from Fayetteville, North Carolina.
In 2009, he became the पहला कलाकार to चिह्न to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label.
His long-awaited डेब्यू एल्बम, हकदार कोल संसार : the sideline Story, was released on September 27, 2011.
The album debuted at क्रमांक एक on the us बिलबोर्ड 200, शीर्ष r & b एल्बम और शीर्ष Rap Albums chart, selling more than 218,000 in its first week.
he प्राप्त a नामांकन for Best New Artist at the 54th Grammy Awards.
The two main characters of the series, ratchet ( सही ) and Clank ( left ).
Ratchet & Clank is a series of मंच वीडियो games.
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles, such as PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 with the exclusion of आकार matters और रहस्य एजेंट clank, जिससे were developed by High Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable.
Every game in the श्रेणी रै महरूम released लिये प्रत्येक कंसोल, as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment.
An animated feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment is अनुसूचित लिये a नाट्य रिलीज sometime in 2015.
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known as a Lombax, who is a mechanic ) and Clank ( a diminutive, sentient रोबोट ) as वे सफर through the ब्रह्मांड, छायांकन it from evil forces on a regular basis.
The series is विख्यात लिये the समावेश of अनेक exotic और unique, over the top weapons and devices, a concept that Insomniac Games also expanded into their other games.
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a person, the testator, names one or more persons to मैनेज his/her एस्टेट और provides लिये the ट्रांसफ़र of उसके प्रॉपर्टी at death.
For the devolution of property not disposed of by होगा, देखिए उत्तराधिकार और intestacy.
In the strictest sense, a `` will '' has historically महरूम सीमित to रियल प्रॉपर्टी जबकि `` वसीयत '' applies तभी to dispositions of निजी प्रॉपर्टी ( यूँ giving rise to the popular title of the document as `` Last Will and Testament '' ), though this distinction is seldom observed today.
A will may also create a testamentary trust that is प्रभावी तभी बाद the मौत of the testator.
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies शामिल सौर हीटिंग, सौर photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to दोहन the उर्जा.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable, inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term लाभ.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ हैं global.
Hence the additional costs of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ), known to Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935, was an अंग्रेज़ी वकील, सोशल पारस, लेखक, statesman, और विख्यात पुनर्जागरण humanist.
He was an important councillor to Henry VIII of England and was रब चांसलर इससे अक्तूबर 1529 to 16 May 1532.
He was canonized by Pope Pius XI in 1935 as one of the जल्दी शहीदो of the schism कि अलग the गिरिजाघर of England from Rome in the 16th century.
In 2000, Pope John Paul II declared उसे संरक्षक of कैथोलिक कूटनीतिज्ञों and politicians.
More थी an प्रतिद्वन्दी of the प्रोटोस्टेंट reformation, in particular of Martin Luther and William Tyndale.
However, since 1980, he is भी commemorated by the गिरिजाघर of England as a reformation martyr.
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a name he gave to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप स्वदेश, the राजनैतिक प्रणाली of जिससे he वर्णित in Utopia, published in 1516.
He opposed the King 's separation from the Roman Catholic Church and refused to accept उसे as Supreme Head of the Church of England, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
He थी imprisoned in 1534 लिये उसके refusal to लो the oath required by the First Succession Act, because the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
In 1535, he was आजमाया लिये देशद्रोह, convicted on perjured testimony, and beheaded.
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to औसत `` शिद्दत trying भी व्यर्थ बाते '', in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation.
intellectuals और कूटनीतिज्ञों across Europe were stunned by More 's execution.
Erasmus saluted उसे as एक `` जिनकी soul was more pure than any snow, whose genius was such that England never had and never again will have its like ''.
There was a more controversial side to More 's जीवन, क्युकी he advocated the persecution और निष्पादन of Protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the times he lived in and उसके शहादत in the रोमन कैथोलिक कारण.
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the व्यक्ति of the महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम ever produced '', a sentiment with which Samuel Johnson agreed.
Historian Hugh trevor-roper कहा in 1977 कि अधिक थी `` the पहला ग्रेट अंग्रेज whom we feel that we know, the most saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the universal man of our cool northern renaissance. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as Prince Dakkar, is a fictional character invented by the French विज्ञान fiction लेखक जूल्स वर्न.
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) और the रहस्यमय द्वीप ( 1874 ), और makes a कैमियो appearance in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
Nemo, one of the most famous antiheroes in fiction, is a mysterious figure.
The son of an Indian Raja, he is a scientific genius who roams the depths of the sea in उसके पनडुब्बी, the नॉटिलस, जिससे थी built on a deserted island.
Nemo tries to project a stern, नियंत्रित विश्वास, लकिन he is चलित by a thirst for vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his crew members और भी by the मौतों of दुश्मन sailors.
Nemo रै appeared in विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels, including films, where he has been portrayed by a number of different actors.
He has furthermore been adopted by other authors for समावेश in उनके novels, सबसे notably in एलन मूर 's the लीग of असाधारण सज्जनों and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg.
Listed below are the Major League बेसबॉल टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन ऋतु won-lost records in history, as determined by winning percentage (.700 or better ), minimum 120 games played.
ध्वनिक coupler modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a यंत्र कि modulates an एनालॉग वाहक सिग्नल to encode digital information, and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily और decoded to reproduce the original digital data.
modems can be प्रयुक्त over कोई अर्थात् of transmitting analog signals, from light emitting diodes to radio.
The most familiar example is a voice band modem कि turns the डिजिटल आंकड़ा of a निजी कंप्यूटर into modulated electrical signals in the voice frequency range of a telephone channel.
These signals can be transmitted over टेलीफोन लाइनों और demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to recover the digital data.
Modems are generally classified by the amount of आंकड़ा वे can भेजें in a दिए ईकाई of समय, प्रायः expressed in bits per second ( bit/s, or bps ), or bytes per second ( B/s ).
Modems can alternatively be वर्गीकृत by उनके प्रतीक rate, measured in baud.
The baud ईकाई denotes प्रतीकों प्रति दूसरी, or the number of times per second the modem sends a new signal.
For example, the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying with two संभावित बारंबारता सम्बन्धित to दो distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ), to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud.
By contrast, the original itu v.22 मानक, जिससे थी समर्थ to संचारण और प्राप्त चार पृथक प्रतीकों ( दो बिट्स per symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies, तब at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a new nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
John Adams थी a नेता in pushing for independence, which was unanimously approved on July 2.
A committee had already drafted the formal घोषणा, to be तैयार when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़, which congress would edit to produce the final version.
The घोषणा थी ultimately a औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4, हालांकि एडम्स चाही जुलाई 2.
After ratifying the text on July 4, कॉंग्रेस जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in several forms.
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside कि थी widely वितरित and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is प्रदर्शित at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was स्वीकृत on जुलाई 4, the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर was August 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have been derived from this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii, और by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its असली purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since then, it रै आइये to be considered a major statement on human rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों, कि among ये हैं Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '', containing `` the सबसे potent and consequential words in American history. ''
The passage came to represent a moral मानक to जिससे the United States should strive.
This view was notably प्रचारित by अब्राहम lincoln, जो माना the घोषणा to be the foundation of his political philosophy, and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has inspired work for the rights of अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout the world.
The Economy of Greenland can be characterized as small, मिश्रित और vulnerable.
The उपस्थित अर्थव्यवस्था consists of a बिग पब्लिक सेक्टर और व्यापक विदेशी trade, which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth, considerable inflation, unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow from Denmark and use of outside, mainly Danish, skilled labor.
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from the Danish government, which supplies about half the revenues of the home नियम सरकारी जो in फेरे employ परिचय 8,000 greenlanders आउट of a मजदूर फ़ोर्स of 40,156 ( jan. 2012 ).
Unemployment nonetheless remains high, with the rest of the अर्थव्यवस्था निर्भर upon माँग लिये exports of shrimp and fish.
हाइड्रोजन is a रासायनिक तत्व with symbol H and atomic number 1.
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ), हाइड्रोजन is the lightest तत्व और इसके monatomic रूप ( h1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass.
Non- remnant stars हैं मुख्यतः रचित of हाइड्रोजन in its plasma state.
at मानक तापमान और दबाव, हाइड्रोजन is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2.
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in molecules such as water and organic यौगिकों क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily फ़ॉर्म covalent यौगिकों साथ सबसे non-metallic elements.
Hydrogen plays a विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in acid-base रसायन साथ अनेक reactions exchanging protons between soluble molecules.
In ionic compounds, it can लो a ऋणात्मक चार्ज ( an anion ज्ञात as a hydride and written as H− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
the latter cation is लिखा as हालांकि रचित of a bare proton, but in reality, hydrogen cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species.
The most common isotope of हाइड्रोजन is protium ( नाम rarely प्रयुक्त, प्रतीक 1h ) with a single proton and no neutrons.
as the सरलतम अणु ज्ञात, the hydrogen atom has been of theoretical use.
For example, as the only neutral atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger equation, the study of the energetics and bonding of the हाइड्रोजन अणु निभाई a कुंजी भूमिका in the development of quantum mechanics.
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the early 16th सदी, via the mixing of metals with acids.
In 1766–81, Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete substance, and that it produces water when burned, a property which later gave it its name : in Greek, हाइड्रोजन अर्थात् `` water-former ''.
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस, और कम प्रायः इससे more energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water.
Most hydrogen is employed near its production साईट, साथ the दो largest उपयोग होने चट्टान ईंधन प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) and ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market.
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle अनेक धातुओं, complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks.
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller film निर्देशित by टोनी स्कॉट, लिखा by चिह्नित bomback, और अभिनीत डेंज़ल Washington and Chris Pine.
The film, loosely based on the real-life csx 8888 घटना, tells the स्टोरी of a runaway freight train, and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it.
It was Scott 's final feature film पहले उसके मौत in 2012.
The film was released in the United States and Canada on नवम्बर 12, 2010, and in the United Kingdom on November 24, 2010.
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a `` certified भैस '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic.
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best ध्वनि संपादन at the 83rd अकादमी Awards, but lost to Inception.
In photography, bracketing is the सामान्य तकनीक of लेने अनेक गोलियाँ of the same subject using different camera settings.
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a single shot, विशेषकर जब a छोटी विभिन्नता in एक्सपोज़र पैरामीटर्स रै a comparatively विशाल प्रभाव on the resulting image.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take several bracketed गोलियाँ ( in कंट्रास्ट to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ).
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots, it is typically, but not always, used for static विषय.
Insulated glazing ( IG ), more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग by an एयर or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope.
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured with glass in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or अधिक in खास अनुप्रयोग.
laminated or tempered कांच may also be used as part of the construction.
Most units are manufactured with the same thickness of glass used on both panes but special applications such as acoustic attenuation or security may आवश्यकता चौड़ी सीमाएँ of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit.
A sectioned diagram of a फिक्स्ड insulated चमकीले Unit ( IGU ), indicating the numbering convention used in this article.
Surface # 1 is facing outside, Surface # 2 is the inside surface of the exterior pane, सतह # 3 is the बाहर सतह of the आंतरिक फलक, और सतह # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane.
The window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals are shown in red ( # 7 ), the internal reveal is on the सही हाथ पक्ष ( # 8 ) और the exterior windowsill on the बाएँ ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ), manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the मोटाई of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit.
For example, a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm फलक on the exterior और a 3 mm pane on the interior.
These variations हैं अनुमत लिये architectural and cost reasons.
Other combinations can be specified and produced लकिन the निर्माता may आरक्षित the सही to सीमा the term of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether.
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ), Surface # 2 ( inside of outside pane ), Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and सतह # 4 ( अंदर सतह of अंदर pane ).
Applying the corresponding नामकरण लिये ट्रिपल paned इकाई परिणाम in surfaces # 1 through # 6.
the प्रदर्शन of insulating glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing खिड़कियाँ साथ upvc खिड़की फ्रेम्स.
Selenium is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक Se and atomic number 34.
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its आवधिक तालिका column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium.
It rarely occurs in its elemental राज्य in प्रकृति, or as pure ore compounds.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon '' ) was discovered in 1817 by jöns याक़ूब berzelius, जो विख्यात the समानता of the नई तत्व to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide ores, जहाँ it partially replaces the sulfur.
Commercially, selenium is produced as a byproduct in the शोधन of ये ores, सबसे प्रायः during copper production.
Minerals that are pure selenide or selenate यौगिकों हैं ज्ञात, but are rare.
The chief वाणिज्यिक उपयोग लिये सेलेनियम आज हैं in glassmaking and in pigments.
Selenium is a semiconductor और is प्रयुक्त in photocells.
Uses in electronics, once important, have महरूम ज़्यादातर supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices.
Selenium continues to be प्रयुक्त in a few प्रकार of dc शक्ति surge protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot.
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, but trace amounts are जरुरी लिये सेल्यूलर फलन in अनेक जीवों, including all animals.
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant एंजाइमों glutathione peroxidase और thioredoxin reductase ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ).
It is also मिला in तीन deiodinase एंजाइमों, which convert one thyroid hormone to another.
Selenium requirements in plants differ by प्रजाति, साथ कुछ पौधे requiring अपेक्षाकृत large amounts, and others apparently requiring none.
The United States presidential चुनाव of 2008 थी the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election.
it थी आयोजित on मंगलवार, November 4, 2008.
Democrat Barack ओबामा, तब the जूनियर सीनेटर इससे इलिनोइस, defeated Republican John McCain, the senior Senator from Arizona.
As the campaign progressed, the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश था become increasingly unpopular, and the major-party candidates ran on a platform of change and reform.
Domestic policy and the economy eventually emerged as the main themes in the last few months of the चुनाव अभियान बाद the onset of the worst मंदी since the 1930s.
Obama would go on to win a decisive victory over McCain in both the चुनावी और लोकप्रिय vote.
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history, and won the popular और चुनावी vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 सालो, as खूब as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
This was the first U.S. presidential election in which an African American was elected, having also been the first in which an African अमरीकी जीती the नामांकन of either प्रमुख पार्टी.
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. इतिहास कि दोनो प्रमुख पार्टी उम्मीदवार यहूद बैठे u.s. सीनेटरों, तभी the तीसरा समय ( बाद 1920 और 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s. सीनेटर थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, and only the second time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S. Senators.
This was also the first election since 1952 in which neither of the प्रमुख पार्टियों ' नामांकित थी the लाज़िम President or Vice President.
the sovereign प्रिंस or राजकुमारी of Monaco is the reigning monarch and head of state of the Principality of Monaco.
All princes or princesses have officially लिया the नाम of the हाउस of grimaldi, लकिन have belonged to विभिन्न other houses ( Goyon de Matignon, Polignac ) in male line.
The reigning प्रिंस is Albert II.
Visualization of fragmentation और तब of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems, defragmentation is a प्रक्रम कि reduces the amount of fragmentation.
It does this by physically आयोजन the सामग्री of the द्रव्यमान भंडार यंत्र प्रयुक्त to store files into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
It also attempts to create larger regions of फ़्री स्पेस using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation उपयोगिताएँ कोशिश to रखना छोटी फाइलें within a single directory together, as they are often accessed in sequence.
Defragmentation is advantageous and relevant to file प्रणालियों on electromechanical disk drives.
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over अलग क्षेत्रों of the डिस्क जब accessing fragmented files is slower, compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments.
A service-level अनुबंध ( sla ) is a भाग of a service contract where a service is formally defined.
In अभ्यास, the पद sla is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the contracted delivery time ( of the service or performance ).
As an example, internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements within the शर्तें of उनके अनुबंध साथ ग्राहक to define the स्तर ( s ) of सेवा होने बेची in plain language terms.
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean समय between असफलताओं ( mtbf ), औसत समय to मरम्मत or औसत समय to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details.
Union Station is a पूर्व खरीदारी मॉल in संघ नगर, Georgia, in southwest metro Atlanta adjacent to Interstate 85.
बाद नई स्वामित्व और renovations in 2006, the name was changed from Shannon Southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
A previous renovation was done in the लेट 1990s.
The mall has महरूम बंद चूंकि नवम्बर 2010.
This map shows the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य और, in insets at the निम्नतर बाएँ, the दो राज्य that are not contiguous.
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the महाद्वीप of उत्तर अमेरिका कि हैं दक्षिण of कनाडा और उत्तर of Mexico, plus the District of Columbia.
The term excludes the states of Alaska and Hawaii, and सब off-shore u.S. territories and possessions, such as Puerto Rico.
Together, the 48 contiguous states and D.C. occupy a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल of, जिससे is 1.58 % of the कुल surface area of the Earth.
Of this, is जमीन, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
Officially, is water area, composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area.
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the स्वदेश 's जनसांख्यिकी, और a घनत्व of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole.
`` Why '' is the title of a song अंकित by अमरीकी देश बैंड rascal Flatts.
It is the तीसरा सिंगल इससे उनके छठे स्टुडियो album, Unstoppable.
It was released to radio stations on सितंबर 29, 2009 और debuted at # 44 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड us बिलबोर्ड Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10, 2009.
It was लिखा by रोब mathes और एलन shamblin.
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness, medical need and दक्षता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं प्रक्रियाओं और सुविधाएं according to established criteria or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan.
Typically it शामिल नई क्रियाएँ or निर्णय based upon the analysis of a case.
Utilization management describes proactive प्रक्रियाओं, सहित निर्वहन नियोजन, संयुक्त नियोजन, pre-certification and clinical case appeals.
It also covers proactive processes, such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews, as well as appeals introduced by the प्रदाता, payer or रोगी.
As pre-certification and concurrent review of cases grew, utilization प्रबन्धन spun आउट of utilization review.
While not synonymous, स्वास्थ्य परवाह पेशेवर tend to use the terms as interchangeable.
The difference is utilization management is and intends to manage health care cases efficiently और लागत effectively पहले और दौरान स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रशासन.
Utilization review is अधिक considering whether स्वास्थ्य परवाह was appropriately applied after it was administered.
There are चार मौलिक तकनीकों in utilization management:
Demand प्रबन्धन
utilization Review
मामला प्रबन्धन
बीमारी प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. hinton, first published in 1967 by Viking Press.
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the novel, but did most of the कार्य जब वो थी सोलह और a जूनियर in ऊँची school.
hinton थी 18 जब the book was published.
The book follows two rival groups, the Greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the author as, छोटी लिये socials ), who are divided by their socioeconomic status.
The book takes प्लेस in तुलसा, ओक्लाहोमा, in 1965, but it is never stated in the book.
A film adaptation was produced in 1983, और a little-known short-lived television series appeared in 1990, picking up where the movie left off.
The United States हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
The other हाउस is the Senate.
The composition and powers of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in आलेख One of the United States Constitution.
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the शक्ति to initiate आय बिल्स, to impeach officials, और to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is हकदार to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि.
The most populous state, California, फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि.
The total number of voting प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by law at 435.
Each प्रतिनिधि serves for a two-year term.
The Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, जो presides over the कक्ष, is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस, और is इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the दक्षिण wing of the संयुक्त States Capitol.
a सप्लाई कड़ी is दरअसल a जटिल and dynamic supply and demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of organizations, people, activities, सूचना, और संसाधन शामिल in चलती a product or service from supplier to customer.
Supply chain क्रियाएँ रूपांतरण प्राकृतिक संसाधन, कच्चा सामग्री, and components into a finished product that is delivered to the end customer.
In sophisticated supply chain systems, used products may re-enter the सप्लाई कड़ी at कोई पाइंट where residual value is recyclable.
सप्लाई जंजीरों link value chains.
`` Purple Haze '' is a सोंग लिखा और अंकित by जिमि हेंड्रिक्स in 1967, released as the दूसरी single by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States.
It later appeared on the American version of the band 's 1967 एल्बम हैं तुम अनुभवी.
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical साइकेडेलिक ड्रग गीतों of the sixties ''.
`` जामुनी haze 's '' गिटार virtuosic techniques would be emulated by many metal guitarists.
A close up picture of a गैंडा skin.
Skin is the soft outer covering of vertebrates.
अन्य एनिमल छतरियाँ ऐसे as the सन्धिपाद बहि have different developmental origin, structure and chemical composition.
The adjective cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the स्किन '' ( इससे Latin cutis, skin ).
In स्तनधारियों, the स्किन is the largest अंग of the integumentary प्रणाली made up of multiple layers of ectodermal tissue, and guards the underlying muscles, bones, ligaments and internal organs.
Skin of a अलग nature exists in amphibians, reptiles, and birds.
All स्तनधारियों have कुछ बाल on उनके skin, even marine mammals which appear to be hairless.
The skin interfaces साथ the पर्यावरण and is the first line of defense from external factors.
For example, the skin plays a key भूमिका in protecting the देह against pathogens and excessive water loss.
Its other functions are insulation, temperature विनियमन, सनसनी, और the उत्पादन of vitamin D folates.
severely क्षतिग्रस्त स्किन may heal by forming scar tissue.
This is sometimes discoloured and depigmented.
the मोटाई of स्किन भी varies from location to location on an organism.
In humans for उदाहरण, the स्किन स्तिथ अंतर्गत the आँखें और around the eyelids is the thinnest skin in the body at 0.5 mm thick, and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles.
The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm thick and the thickest स्किन in the देह.
फर is घना hair.
Primarily, fur augments the इन्सुलेशन the स्किन provides लकिन can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage.
On some animals, the skin is very hard and मोटा, और can be processed to बनाएँ leather.
Reptiles and fish have hard सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on उनके स्किन लिये protection, and birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to ड्योढ़ी of रसायन और is प्रायः विषय to परासरण and diffusive forces.
For example, a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution would be sedated जल्दी, as the रासायनिक diffuses through its skin.
थामस स्कॉट
The Rev. Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally known for his best-selling कार्य a commentary on the पूरे बाइबल और the फ़ोर्स of सच्चाई, और as एक of the संस्थापकों of the गिरिजाघर Missionary Society.
Daniel Radcliffe, who portrays Harry Potter, has been the icon of the film series चूंकि the रिलीज of the पहला फिल्मी in 2001.
Some of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं of the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड have voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
डेनियल radcliffe, रुपर्ट grint और एम्मा वाटसन have निभाई हैरी Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films.
When they were cast only radcliffe था previously acted in a film.
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter, Jim Broadbent, John Cleese, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, Brendan gleeson, रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ, रिचर्ड हैरिस, जॉन ठेस, जेसन isaacs, miriam margolyes, हेलेन mccrory, गेरी Oldman, Alan Rickman, Fiona Shaw, Maggie Smith, Timothy Spall, Imelda Staunton, David Thewlis, Emma Thompson, and Julie Walters, among others.
Thirteen अभिनेताओं have appeared as the same character in all eight films of the franchise.
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the श्रेणी, हैं पूछा in jest क्यों वे have not been cast.
When David Yates was directing the fifth film, विधेयक nighy, जो था previously collaborated साथ येट्स on three of his television projects, said that he joked with Yates that maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter.
`` But nobody पुकारा '', nighy added.
But in 2009, येट्स डाल nighy as मंत्री of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in Deathly Hallows.
Nighy कहा, `` i am no longer the तभी अंग्रेज़ी actor not to be in Harry Potter and I am very pleased. ''
Jude Law has quipped, `` nobody 's पूछा me.
I was a bit too बूढ़ा लिये Harry ''.
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every notable British actor, '' Jim Broadbent, जो plays slughorn कहा, `` खूब, नहीं प्रत्येक actor gets invited.
I know some who are स्टिल प्रतीक्षारत. ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus, each director has had a cameo appearance in his respective film : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन broomsticks in कैदी of azkaban ; माइक newell is सुना briefly as the रेडियो प्रस्तुतकर्ता in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix.
Producer David Heyman also makes a cameo रूप as a जादूगर प्रदर्शित भीतर a जादुई moving portrait in the third film, Prisoner of Azkaban.
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world premiere of the final फिल्मी in the series— हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
She announced that वो could never have dreamt of the प्रतिभाशाली अभिनेताओं और अभिनेत्रियों who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies.
Rowling also announced that there are seven Harry Potter film series cast members, who she refers to as `` The Big सात '', वे हैं डेनियल radcliffe, रुपर्ट grint, एम्मा वाटसन, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright.
The list below is sorted by film and character, as कुछ वर्ण have महरूम portrayed by अनेक actors.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री lent तभी उसके or her voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when the character was young.
( f ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री किया नहीं appear in कोई नई footage for the film ; footage from an earlier film or films was used.
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` दान burbage '' पंक्ति in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation.
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles, ' based on the स्वीकृत साहित्य ) outlining a कोर्स of action for recovery from, compulsion, or other behavioral problems.
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism, the बारह कदम यहूद पहला प्रकाशित in the किताब alcoholics बेनाम : the स्टोरी of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939.
The method was then adapted और became the न्यास of अन्य twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the American Psychological Association, the process involves the following:
admitting that one can not कंट्रोल एक 's व्यसन or compulsion ;
recognizing a उच्चतर शक्ति कि can दे strength ;
examining past errors साथ the सहायता of a प्रायोजक ( अनुभवी member ) ;
making amends लिये ये त्रुटियाँ ;
learning to live a new life with a new कोड of बर्ताव ;
helping others who suffer from the वही व्यसनों or compulsions.
Witness impeachment, in the law of evidence of the United States, is the process of calling into question the विश्वसनीयता of an व्यक्तिगत जो is testifying in a विचारण.
the संघीय नियम of प्रमाण contain the rules governing impeachment in federal courts.
Party leaders and whips of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि हैं निर्वाचित by उनके संबंधित parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders.
The U.S. House of Representatives करता नहीं officially उपयोग the पद `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' हालांकि the media frequently do.
The House instead uses the terms `` Republican Leader '' or `` लोकतांत्रिक नेता '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats.
The current House बहुमत नेता is रिपब्लिकन eric cantor, जबकि the current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
The current House Majority Whip is Republican Kevin McCarthy, while the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक चाबुक is डेमोक्रेट Steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i in 1914, the जर्मनी फौज खोली the पश्चिमी Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium, then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France.
The tide of the अग्रिम थी dramatically turned with the Battle of the Marne.
Following the रेस to the समुद्र, दोनो पहलू खोदा in साथ a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches, stretching from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France.
This line remained essentially अपरिवर्तित लिये most of the war.
between 1915 और 1917 वहीँ यहूद अनेक major offensives along this front.
The attacks employed विशाल तोपखाने bombardments और massed infantry advances.
However, a combination of entrenchments, यंत्र गन nests, कंटीले तार, और तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders.
As a result, no significant अग्रिम were made.
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead, the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an अनुमानित ] लाख हताहत, और the बैटल of passchendaele साथ roughly [ an अनुमानित ] 600,000 casualties.
In an effort to ब्रेक the deadlock, इस सामने देखी the परिचय of new military technology, including poison gas, aircraft and tanks.
But it was only after the adoption of improved tactics कि some degree of mobility was restored.
The जर्मनी वसन्त अप्रिय of 1918 थी made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front.
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the जर्मनी सेना उन्नत nearly to the वेस्ट, जिससे चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either पक्ष चूंकि 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this सामने, इस थिएटर होता prove decisive.
The inexorable advance of the Allied सेना दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of 1918 persuaded the जर्मनी कमांडरों कि शिकस्त was inevitable, and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice.
The terms of peace were agreed upon with the signing of the सन्धि of versailles in 1919.
The following is a list of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody.
ये वर्ण यहूद regularly rotated, often disappearing for long periods during the series.
The following list of वर्ण रै महरूम sorted alphabetically, by first name.
Some of the characters had no last name and most were commonly referred to by their first name so इस appeared to be the सबसे लॉजिकल विधि.
In the case of Chef Paolo, who had no known पहला नाम, वे have महरूम listed by title.
The पहला महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flotus ) is the hostess of the White House.
Because this position is traditionally filled by the wife of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, the शीर्षक is सबसे प्रायः लागू to the wife of a sitting president.
The current पहला महिला is मिशेल Obama.
After her husband Barack Obama was re-elected on November 6, 2012, she is scheduled to serve जबतक January 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of severe infection और सेप्सिस, हालांकि the microbe may be प्रणालीगत or स्थानीयकृत to a particular site.
It can कारण अनेक organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death.
Its most common victims are children, immunocompromised individuals, और the बुजुर्ग, as उनके प्रतिरक्षा प्रणालियों can नहीं deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults.
Frequently, patients कष्ट इससे सेप्टिक शॉक हैं cared लिये in intensive care units.
The mortality rate from septic शॉक is लगभग 25–50 %.
Kevin Brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer.
His given name may also be cited as kheaven, a स्पेलिंग he later adopted.
The alias `` k-os '', spelled with a lower case `` k '', was intended to be कम आक्रामक than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers जिनकी names यहूद सब अपर case, such as KRS-One.
It is an acronym लिये `` ज्ञान of स्वः, '' हालांकि in a बाद इंटरव्यू he said that it originally stood for `` Kevin 's Original Sound. '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres, including rap, funk, rock, and reggae.
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at टाइम्स expressing आलोचना of mainstream hip hop culture 's obsession with money, fame and glorification of violence.
A musician as well as a producer, k-os रै लिखा और उत्पादित nearly every part of all four of his albums.
k-os usually performs with a live band, something कि is uncommon in the हिप हॉप विधा.
He sometimes plays गिटार और कुंजीपटल both during live performances and in the studio.
k-os received his first musical exposure with the single `` musical essence '', released in 1993.
After the रिलीज of उसके दूसरी सिंगल `` वृद्धि जैसे the सूर्य '' in 1996, he withdrew from the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 और released उसके डेब्यू album Exit in 2002.
The album received positive समीक्षाएँ लकिन बेची अपेक्षाकृत few नक़ल.
He released उसके दूसरी एल्बम आनन्द विद्रोह in 2004, which received platinum status in Canada.
A third album,, was released in 2006 and भी गई प्लेटिनम.
उसके चौथी एल्बम, Yes !
, was released in 2009.
His पांचवां एल्बम ब्लैक on सुनहरे was released in 2013.
The official 2007 edition of the UCC.
Even the confidential rough drafts of the UCC यहूद saved और प्रकाशित as a 10-volume set.
the वर्दी वाणिज्यिक कोड ( ucc or the कोड ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1952, is एक of a क्रमांक of वर्दी अधिनियमों कि have महरूम promulgated in conjunction with efforts to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America.
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing routes with एक or अधिक stops at a belay स्टेशन.
Each section of actual climbing between stops at the belay स्टेशन is called a pitch.
the नेता ascends the pitch, placing gear and stopping to anchor themselves to the belay station.
The reason for the stops can be संकल्पित by choice, convention or necessity.
लिये example:
The rope is too short to do the entire route in one पिच ( necessity ).
The leader has run out of सुरक्षात्मक गियर ( necessity ).
There is a convenient protectable ledge, or fixed bolts placed by previous चढना, at the स्थान for a belay station ( convention ).
the नेता chooses to बाकी or एक्सचेंज लीड before the next section of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to ascend to the point of the lead climber while collecting the सुरक्षात्मक गियर इससे the रूट in the कोर्स of the सीसे climber 's ascent.
At the belay station, the protective gear is collected, possibly exchanged to a new leader, and the leader of the अगला पिच ascends the रूट.
A आरेख प्रर्दशित an i गठन on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football, each team has eleven खिलाड़ी on the फ़ील्ड at एक time.
The specific role that a player takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके position.
Under the modern rules of American football, teams are अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, कि is टीमों may बदलें कोई number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the ball, जो is trying to स्कोर ), the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग, और to लो the बॉल from them ), and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, विभिन्न विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the national implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), with varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug प्रशासन, determine जिससे substances हैं added to or removed इससे the विभिन्न schedules, हालांकि the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing, and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000, which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I. Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
The वेन रूट 23 पारगमन बीच is a नई जर्सी पारगमन park-and-ride स्टेशन in वेन, नई जर्सी along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New York City and various other points in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New York, Hoboken, and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University.
It is located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23 on West Belt Road, near the इंटरचेंज जहाँ रूट 23, अंतरराज्यीय 80, और u.S. Route 46 meet, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
The station opened in January 2008 और रै 1,000 पार्किंग spaces.
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail and bus स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन, '' कि होगा सहायता relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange, where the three major highways meet.
In addition, the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride, a बस डिपो on रूट 23 उत्तर कि रै चूंकि महरूम renamed माँ 's Park & Ride, and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook.
The Wayne Township bus garage is located on the विपरीत पक्ष of रूट 23.
There has been a प्रस्ताव to निर्माण a पार्किंग डेक साथ another thousand spots and develop the land at the station.
In addition to Montclair-Boonton trains, the Transit Center is परोसा by the following नई जर्सी पारगमन bus lines:
75 to Newark penn स्टेशन और Butler
194 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and butler/newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus टर्मिनल और विलियम paterson University
324 to Port Authority और वेन रूट 23
748 to willowbrook Mall and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol, ampersat, apetail or वाणिज्यिक at in english—and less commonly a wide range of other terms.
The fact that there is no सिंगल शब्द in अंग्रेज़ी लिये the प्रतीक रै prompted कुछ लेखक to उपयोग the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand, ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency.
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters, लकिन थी on at तनिक एक 1889 मॉडल और the बहुत कामयाब underwood मॉडल इससे the `` underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is अभी universally included on computer keyboards.
In recent years, its meaning has grown to include the sense of being `` located at, '' `` and, '' or `` directed at '', विशेषकर in ईमेल पता और सोशल मीडिया, विशेषकर ट्विटर.
The चिह्नित is एनकोडेड at.
The Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 अनोखा by J. D. Salinger.
Originally published for वयस्कों, it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent पाठक लिये its themes of teenage angst and alienation.
it has been translated into almost all of the world 's major languages.
Around 250,000 copies are बेची प्रत्येक साल साथ कुल बिक्री of अधिक than 65 million books.
The novel 's protagonist and antihero, होल्डन caulfield, रै become an icon for teenage rebellion.
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best english-language novels written since 1923, and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.
It रै महरूम अक्सर challenged in the संयुक्त States and other countries for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It also deals with complex issues of identity, belonging, कनेक्शन, और alienation.
skeletal मांसपेशियां homo sapiens
इस is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
वहीँ हैं लगभग 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on both sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक anatomical position.
In other positions, other क्रियाएँ may be performed.
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality television series created by जोनाथन मरे लिये the ऑक्सीजन टेलीविज़न station.
The show centers on seven feisty और शरारती महिलाओं साथ अलग backgrounds and personalities, who have a number of psychological and behavioral problems.
They are introduced to the दिखाएँ बंद उनके घातक behavior and accomplish specific goals.
The cast, deemed `` bad girls '', enjoy a luxurious जीवनशैली in a ठीक mansion लिये तीन months, during which they must obey specified rules.
Their जीवनदान अंदर – और बाहर – of the house are chronicled and recorded by the production team.
The Bad Girls Club is ब्रॉडकास्ट in पाँच देशों ( संयुक्त States, Netherlands, Australia, Hungary, and Sweden ).
It has received negative reviews from critics, who believe the दिखाएँ promotes हिंसा by adolescent viewers.
Furthermore, several cast members made विवादास्पद remarks जिससे outraged अनेक दर्शक.
The format of the show has changed इससे जल्दी सीज़न.
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule, she is evicted from the show and, if it is early in the ऋतु, replaced by a नई `` ख़राब लड़की ''.
There have been nine complete seasons of The ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों, साथ the tenth season currently airing.
the चौथी ऋतु था the उच्चतम दरजा in the show 's history, becoming its `` breakthrough season ''.
वहीँ have महरूम तीन spin-offs of The Bad Girls Club.
One of them, Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love too, जहाँ पास्ट डाल सदस्यों seek true love, has gained high ratings.
Oxygen has also released a मोबाईल खेल, कॉमिक स्ट्रिप and merchandise to promote the show.
Of the 92 प्रतियोगी, केरी harvick ( of ऋतु एक ) was a successful country singer before the show.
Tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later hosted ऑक्सीजन 's oxygenlive !
and the subsequent सीज़न of प्रेम Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too.
थामस, जो रै महरूम उतावले the `` godmother '' to all contestants, has her own television documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married.
As of Season 8 she 's been the host of the पुनर्मिलन specials.
The Iowa सीनेट is the अपर house of the Iowa General Assembly.
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate, representing 50 single-member districts across the state with populations of लगभग 60,927 प्रति constituency,.
Each Senate ज़िला is रचित of two House districts.
The Senate meets at the Iowa State कैपिटल in देस moines.
Unlike the lower house, the Iowa House of Representatives, Senators serve four-year शर्तें, साथ हाफ of the सीनेट लड़खड़ाते लिये re-election every two years.
There are no term limits for the सीनेट.
mechanical repair
Maintenance, repair, and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance, repair, and overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical, plumbing or विद्युत यंत्र चाहिए it become आउट of अनुक्रम or टूटा ( ज्ञात as मरम्मत, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in working order ( known as scheduled मेंटेनेंस ) or prevent ट्रबल इससे arising ( preventive maintenance ).
MRO may be defined as, `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an मद in or to a राज्य in जिससे it can perform its required function.
The actions include the combination of all तकनीकी और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक, managerial, and supervision actions. ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer, i.e. a service is being offered, or whether the उत्पाद is खरीदा by the reprocessing संगठन और बेची to कोई ग्राहक wishing to मेक the खरीदें ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the former case it may be a backshop आपरेशन within a larger organisation or smaller operation.
The former of these represents a closed loop supply chain and usually रै the पैमाना of मेंटेनेंस, मरम्मत or of the product.
The latter of the categorisations is an open loop सप्लाई कड़ी और is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture.
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is कि the माँग लिये a उत्पाद is matched साथ the सप्लाई of a used product.
Neglecting एसेट write-offs और असाधारण क्रियाएँ the कुल population of the product between the customer and the service provider remains constant.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of Wales, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of उत्तराधिकार, पीछे उसके पिता, to the तख्तों of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, The Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
प्रिंस विलियम थी शिक्षित at चार schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews.
He spent भाग of a गैप साल in चिली, बेलीज़, तंजानिया, and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times.
Prince विलियम रै भी लिया kiswahili अध्ययन at universities in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and, दो सालो बाद, अर्जित उसके विंग्स by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the Royal Air Force, was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in अनुक्रम to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to RAF Valley on no. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी.
Hours prior to उसके विवाह, प्रिंस William was created Duke of Cambridge, Earl of Strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम soulja लड़के बताना 'Em, or simply Soulja Boy, is an American rapper, record producer, actor, and entrepreneur.
In September 2007, his single `` Crank कि ( soulja लड़के ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100.
The single was initially self-published on the internet, and it later became a number-one hit in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये सात non-consecutive सप्ताह starting in September 2007.
On August 17 Way was सूचीबद्ध at # 18 on the फोर्ब्स सूची of hip-hop Cash Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year.
Way has currently released three studio albums and एक स्वतंत्र एल्बम : उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA.
However, his next two albums, isouljaboytellem ( 2008 ) और the deandre रास्ता ( 2010 ) किया नहीं मैच the वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू, the latter तभी selling 100,000 नक़ल, despite the success of several singles across both albums, such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records which meant a सीमित राशि of रिकॉर्ड यहूद बना उपलब्धियाँ to the public.
As of 2011, Way has confirmed he is working on उसके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम, हकदार यूएसए ड्रे, जिससे होगा be released in 2013.
The electron transport chain in the सूत्रकणिका is the साईट of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
The nadh और succinate उत्पन्न in the citric acid cycle are oxidized, providing energy to power ATP synthase.
Photosynthetic electron transport chain of the thylakoid membrane.
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an electron donor ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( ऐसे as o2 ) साथ the ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions ( protons ) आरपार a झिल्ली.
The resulting electrochemical proton gradient is प्रयुक्त to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the रूप of एडीनोसिन triphosphate ( ATP ).
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the ऑक्सीकरण of sugars ( श्वसन ).
In chloroplasts, light drives the conversion of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH साथ ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions आरपार हरितलवक membranes.
In mitochondria, it is the परिवर्तन of oxygen to water, NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate that are required to generate the proton gradient.
Electron transport chains are major sites of premature इलेक्ट्रॉन leakage to ऑक्सीजन, generating superoxide और potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as conzip, ryzolt, ultracet, ultram in the USA, Ralivia, Zytram XL Durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain.
The drug has a wide range of applications, including treatment of आमवातीय गठिया, बेचैन टाँगे syndrome, motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia.
It was शुभारम्भ और marketed as tramal by the जर्मनी फार्मास्युटिकल company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
Tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol, a significantly अधिक potent μ-opioid agonist.
tramadol और इसके major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors.
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born April 29, 1938 ) is an American former stockbroker, investment advisor, financier, and white collar criminal.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market, and the admitted operator of a पेन्शन योजना कि is माना to be the largest वित्तीय fraud in U.S. history.
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm बर्नार्ड L. madoff निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in 1960, और थी its chairman until his arrest on December 11, 2008.
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street, which bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by सीधे निष्पादित आदेश over the counter from retail brokers.
He employed at the कड़ उसके bhai पीटर as Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance Officer ; Peter has since been sentenced to 10 years in prison.
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's नियम और अनुपालन अधिकारी और attorney, और उसके बेटे Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ).
On December 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told अधिकारियों कि उनके पिता था confessed to उन्हें कि the एसेट प्रबन्धन ईकाई of उसके कड़ थी a विशाल पेन्शन scheme, and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie. ''
The following दिन, एफबीआई एजेंटों गिरफ्तार Madoff and charged him with one count of securities fraud.
The U.S. प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग ( सेक ) था previously conducted investigations into madoff 's business practices, but did not uncover the massive fraud.
In March 2009, Madoff pleaded अपराधी to 11 संघीय felonies और admitted to turning उसके माल प्रबन्धन कारोबार into a massive Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of investors of billions of dollars.
Madoff said he began the Ponzi योजना in the जल्दी 1990s.
However, federal जांचकर्ताओं मानना the धोखाधड़ी began as जल्दी as the 1970s, और those चार्ज साथ recovering the लापता धन मानना the investment operation may never have been legitimate.
The amount missing from client accounts, सहित fabricated gains, थी लगभग $ 65 अरब.
The court-appointed trustee estimated वास्तविक नुकसान to निवेशकों of $ 18 अरब.
On June 29, 2009, he थी sentenced to 150 years in prison, the maximum allowed.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as secretaries दिन or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North America, it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
In France it is celebrated on the third गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public administrative agency, which has powers and procedures resembling those of a court of law or न्यायधीश, और जिससे is obligated to objectively determine तथ्य और चित्रण conclusions इससे उन्हें so as to provide the basis of an official action.
Such actions are able to remedy a हालात or थोपने विधिक दंड, and may affect the legal rights, duties or privileges of specific parties.
Monument of Tycho Brahe और योहानेस कॅप्लर in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge Ottesen Brahe, was a डैनिश nobleman ज्ञात लिये उसके सटीक और व्यापक खगोलीय और ग्रहीय observations.
He was born in Scania, then part of डेनमार्क, अभी part of modern-day Sweden.
Tycho was well known in his lifetime as an astronomer और alchemist.
In his De nova stella ( On the new star ) of 1573, he refuted the aristotelian विश्वास in an अपरिवर्तनशील celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars, '' ( stellae novae, now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572, lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena, और यहूद इसलिए नहीं `` वायुमंडलीय '' tailless धूमकेतुओं as previously believed, लकिन यहूद above the atmosphere and moon.
Using similar measurements he showed that comets were also not वायुमंडलीय phenomena, as previously विचार, and must pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, Tycho worked to combine what he देखी as the geometrical लाभ of the copernican प्रणाली साथ the philosophical लाभ of the Ptolemaic system into his own model of the universe, the Tychonic system.
Furthermore, he was the last of the major naked eye खगोलशास्त्रियों, working बगैर telescopes लिये उसके observations.
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the uraniborg, an जल्दी शोध संस्थान, जहाँ he निर्मित विशाल astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements, and later Stjerneborg, underground, when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady.
On the island ( on which he demonstrated autocratic character and behavior toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories such as paper-making to provide material for printing his results.
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597, he थी आमंत्रित by the bohemian किंग और पावन Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the official imperial astronomer.
He built the new observatory at benátky nad jizerou.
Here, from 1600 until his death in 1601, he थी assisted by योहानेस कॅप्लर who later used Tycho 's astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion.
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a ज़िला of सियोल, दक्षिण कोरियाई, जिससे थी अलग from Yeongdeungpo District on April 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern part of the नगर, जहाँ besides yangcheon ज़िला और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला रै an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति as a transport link which contains railroads, land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country.
The gyeongbu और gyeongin रेल lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon.
In addition, Seoul महानगर सबवे लाइनों 1, 2, और 7, और प्रमुख highways intersect in Guro District.
The name Guro originates from the legend that nine ( ) बूढ़ा मेन ( कोरियाई : ro ) enjoyed आयु in the district.
a डिजिटल औद्योगिक complex is located in Guro District.
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex, which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile manufacturing, dressmaking and other labour-intensive उद्योग in 1967, रै महरूम rapidly changed into an IT industrial complex.
This complex played a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development era, referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the हान नदी ``, और भी contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s.
Twenty-one percent of the total area of Guro District is a restricted zone to be प्रयुक्त as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul.
The zone is changing into a lively district as large labour-intensive factories हैं चलती इससे the क्षेत्रफल और the परिषद is विकासशील कया it terms its four zones.
An `` e-government `` system आधारित on इस hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007, with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries.
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux, France ), Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill, US ), Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok, Thailand ), uvais मोहम्मद emthiyas ( कोलोन, श्री लंका ), और संसार विशेषज्ञ ऐसे as dr विलियम H. dutton ( निदेशक of ऑक्सफोर्ड अंतरजाल संस्थान at the विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑक्सफोर्ड, uk ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The Guro घोषणा, अपनाया दौरान the फ़ोरम, aims to नियत up a पोर्टल साईट for e-government development and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities.
This practice has been recognised for providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण step in the development of e-democracy.
The e-participation forum was a key factor for guro to खेल the अग्रणी भूमिका in bridging the digital divide among cities, to provide I.T. enterprises located in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market, to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy.
The अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on February 7–9, 2007
a wonton ( भी spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in ट्रांसक्रिप्शन from Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of Chinese cuisines.
Many people were involved in the आविष्कार of रेडियो as we now know it.
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered, including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission through the ground, however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the हस्तांतरण और reception of electromagnetic waves.
After early speculation on the subject, experimental work on the कनेक्शन between विद्युत और चुंबकत्व began around 1820 साथ the कार्य of hans ईसाई Ørsted and continued with the work of André-Marie Ampère, Joseph Henry, and Michael Faraday.
These investigations culminated in the पूरा सिद्धान्त of विद्युत्चुम्बकत्व developed by James Clerk Maxwell.
This theory described the सैद्धांतिक आधार of the propagation of electromagnetic waves.
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented with wireless संचार, कुछ intentionally using मैक्सवेल 's theory some not.
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was performed by David Edward ह्यूजेस around 1880, हालांकि इस थी माना to be प्रेरण at the time.
The first systematic and unequivocal हस्तांतरण of em लहरें थी performed by heinrich Rudolf Hertz and described in papers published in 1887 and 1890.
Hertz famously माना ये परिणाम as being of little practical value.
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components और सिद्धान्त शामिल साथ the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves.
Others, notably Guglielmo Marconi, were concerned साथ व्यावहारिक सुधार और the वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग of radio to wireless telegraphy.
Later on रेगिनाल्ड A. fessenden became the पहला to send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves.
Scurvy is a disease resulting इससे a कमियां of विटामिन c, जिससे is required for the synthesis of collagen in humans.
The chemical name for vitamin C, ascorbic acid, is derived from the लैटिन नाम of स्कर्वी, scorbutus, जिससे भी provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ).
Scurvy often presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy, followed by formation of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Spots are most abundant on the thighs and legs, and a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment looks पाले, feels उदास, and is partially immobilized.
As scurvy advances, there can be open, suppurating wounds, loss of दांत, पीलिया, ज्वर, न्यूरोपैथी और मौत.
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors, pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats and dried grains ) and by सैनिको similarly वंचित of ये भोजन लिये विस्तारित अवधि.
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 BC ), and herbal cures for scurvy have महरूम ज्ञात in अनेक देशी संस्कृतियों चूंकि prehistory.
Scurvy थी एक of the limiting कारकों of समुद्री सफर, often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century, continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th सदी.
While आज स्कर्वी is ज्ञात to be caused by a nutritional कमियां, until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, often on little or no experimental data.
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin C as a distinct concept, an inability to reliably link अलग भोजन ( notably उपस्थित in भैस citrus, watercress, and organ meat ) to scurvy.
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by एक्सपोज़र to एयर और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल लवण ऐसे as those of आयरन, यूँ बदलना the कड़ी of foods to scurvy over time.
Treatment by fresh food, particularly citrus fruit, was periodically implemented, as it था महरूम चूंकि antiquity.
However जबतक the 1930s, उपचार थी inconsistent, with many ineffective treatments used into the 20th century.
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy, James Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus फल in प्रयोग he वर्णित in उसके 1753 किताब, a treatise of the स्कर्वी, हालांकि उसके advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades.
In infants, स्कर्वी is sometimes referred to as barlow 's disease, named after Sir Thomas Barlow, a British physician who described it.
However, Barlow 's disease may also refer to mitral वाल्व prolapse.
Other eponyms for स्कर्वी शामिल moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's disease.
Scurvy does not occur in most animals because they can synthesize उनके अपना विटामिन c.
However, humans and other higher primates ( the simians - बंदरों और apes - और tarsiers ), गिनी सूअर, सबसे or सब bats, और some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet.
Vitamin C is widespread in संयंत्र ऊतकों, साथ विशेषकर ऊँची एकाग्रता occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), tomatoes, potatoes, cabbages, and green peppers.
आयरन is a रासायनिक तत्व with the symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26.
It is a metal in the पहला परिवर्तन series.
It is the सबसे आम तत्व ( by द्रव्यमान ) forming the ग्रह धरती as a whole, forming much of Earth 's outer and inner core.
It is the चौथी सबसे आम तत्व in the Earth 's crust.
Iron 's बहुत आम उपस्थिति in रॉकी ग्रह जैसे धरती is due to इसके abundant उत्पादन as a result of fusion in high-mass stars, where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic.
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be उत्पादित पहले पतन of a सुपरनोवा लीड to the विस्फोटक कार्यक्रम that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
Like other समूह 8 तत्व, आयरन exists in a चौड़ी दायरा of ऑक्सीकरण states, −2 to +6, although +2 and +3 are the most common.
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen environments, but is प्रतिक्रिया to ऑक्सीजन और जल.
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, लकिन oxidize in सामान्य एयर to दे hydrated iron oxides, commonly known as rust.
Unlike अनेक अन्य धातुओं जिससे रूप passivating ऑक्साइड परतों, iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal, and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion.
Iron metal has been used since प्राचीन टाइम्स, हालांकि तांबे alloys, which have lower melting temperatures, were used first in history.
Pure iron is नरम ( softer than एल्युमिनियम ), लकिन is unobtainable by smelting.
The सामग्री is significantly hardened और strengthened by impurities from the smelting process, such as carbon.
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces steel, which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron.
crude आयरन मेटल is उत्पादित in धमाका furnaces, जहाँ अयस्क is घटाया by coke to pig iron, which has a high carbon content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the कार्बन सामग्री to the सही proportion to make steel.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the most common metals in industrial use, due to उनके ग्रेट दायरा of वांछनीय properties and the abundance of iron.
Iron chemical compounds, which include ferrous और ferric यौगिकों, have many uses.
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to बनाएँ a थर्माइट प्रतिक्रिया, प्रयुक्त in वेल्डिंग और सुथरा ores.
It forms binary compounds with the halogens and the chalcogens.
Among its organometallic यौगिकों is ferrocene, the first sandwich compound discovered.
Iron plays an important role in जीवविज्ञान, forming देवालय साथ आणविक oxygen in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is also the metal प्रयुक्त at the क्रियाशील साईट of अनेक महत्वपूर्ण रेडॉक्स एंजाइमों dealing with cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals.
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ) is a संघ of 38 पृथक स्वास्थ्य बीमे organizations and companies in the United States.
Combined, वे सीधे or indirectly provide health insurance to over 99 million Americans.
The history of Blue Cross dates back to 1929, जबकि the इतिहास of Blue Shield dates to 1939.
The Blue Cross संघ तिथियाँ वापस to 1960, जबकि its Blue Shield counterpart was created in 1948.
The two संगठन मिलाया in 1982, forming the current association.
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, Singaporean, Hong Kong, South African and Jamaican English ; as a crisp in British अंग्रेज़ी और hiberno-english, और as either a चिप or wafer in भारतीय अंग्रेज़ी ) is a पतला टुकड़ा of आलू कि is गहन fried or baked जबतक crunchy.
Potato chips are commonly served as an क्षुधावर्धक, पक्ष डिश, or स्नैक.
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using various flavorings and संघटक सहित seasonings, herbs, मसाले, cheeses, और कृत्रिम additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may also refer to many अलग प्रकार of savory स्नैक उत्पाद बेची in the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड, कुछ बना इससे आलू, लकिन may also be made from maize, tapioca or other cereals.
An उदाहरण of ये kinds of savory snacks is Monster Munch.
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack food market in english-speaking देशों और numerous other Western nations.
The global potato chip market generated कुल revenues of us $ 16.4 billion in 2005.
इस accounted लिये 35.5 % of the total savory snacks market in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, Sr. ( April 12, 1777 – जून 29, 1852 ) थी a वकील, राजनेता और skilled orator who represented Kentucky in both the Senate and in the House of Representatives.
He served three different terms as Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और थी भी सचिव of State from 1825 to 1829.
he खोया उसके अभियान लिये अध्यक्ष in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
Clay was a प्रबल फिगर in दोनो the First and Second Party systems.
As a leading war hawk in 1812, he favored युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन और निभाई a significant role in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812.
In 1824 he ran for president and lost, but threw his electoral votes to John Quincy Adams, जो बना उसे सचिव of राज्य as the jacksonians denounced कया वे माना a `` भ्रष्ट सौदेबाजी. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 और 1844 as the प्रत्याशी of the Whig Party, which he founded and usually dominated.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System, लड़ लिये an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to फोस्टर उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य, the use of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure, and a strong national bank.
He opposed the annexation of टेक्सास, fearing it would inject the slavery issue into politics.
Clay also opposed the mexican-american युद्ध और the `` manifest नियति `` नीति of Democrats, which cost him votes in the close 1844 election.
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator, '' Clay brokered important compromises during the nullification संकट और on the गुलामी समस्या.
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio, '' along with his colleagues डेनियल वेबस्टर और जॉन C. calhoun, he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
He was viewed as the प्राथमिक प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि in इस group, and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A plantation owner, मिट्टी आयोजित स्लेव दौरान उसके आजीवन but freed them in his Will.
Abraham Lincoln, the Whig leader in Illinois, was a ग्रेट admirer of मिट्टी, saying he थी `` my आदर्श of a great man. ''
lincoln wholeheartedly supported Clay 's economic programs.
In 1957, a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of the five greatest U.S. सीनेटरों, साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर, जॉन C. calhoun, रॉबर्ट la follette, and Robert Taft.
BJ 's Wholesale Club, Inc., commonly referred to बस as bj 's, is a membership-only गोदाम क्लबों chain operating on the United States East Coast, as well as in the state of Ohio.
The company is ranked # 232 on Fortune magazine 's 2010 listing of अमेरिका 's 500 largest पब्लिक corporations.
The Wizard of Oz, known during his reign as The Great and Powerful Oz, is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac नॉर्मन henkel emmannuel ambroise diggs, a fictional अक्षर in the जमीन of oz, निर्मित by American author L. Frank Baum.
The character was further popularized by the क्लासिक 1939 फिल्म, wherein उसके पूरा नाम is नहीं उल्लेखित.
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March 8, 1990 ) is an American सिंगर, songwriter, नर्तकी and actress.
She first appeared on national टेलीविज़न in 2003 as a प्रतियोगी on the American Idol spin-off, American Juniors.
In 2009, debarge हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध साथ the द्वीप रिकॉर्ड विभाग Sodapop, releasing her debut album Exposed in July of the same year.
The first single, `` Goodbye ``, reached the top 20 in the us और कनाडा.
The lead single ( `` क्राई भेड़िया '' ) इससे उसके बेनाम sophomore album was released on September 27, 2012.
The हवाई योद्धाओं फ़ुटबॉल टोली represents the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa in NCAA Division I FBS college football.
The team is coached by norm Chow.
It was भाग of the पश्चिमी एथलेटिक सम्मेलन जबतक जुलाई 2012, when the team joined the Mountain West Conference.
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ टोली to खेल in a bcs कटोरी खेल ; खोने to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr., was an American singer-songwriter और संगीतकार.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres ऐसे as शांत तूफ़ान और neo-soul.
Following a period in यूरोपीय अंतर्गत a कर निर्वासन in the जल्दी 1980s, gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has been posthumously honored by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति.
Location of Chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat with chernobyl संयंत्र in the अलहदा
Abandoned housing ब्लॉक in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ), जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the सेंट्रल अधिकारियों of the सोवियत Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the western USSR and Europe.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been विवादित, और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for.
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to उसके husband as he सेट बंद on his journey in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus, the Christmas gift-bringer in उत्तर अमरीकी और European Christmas tradition.
She is known for making cookies with the elves और तैयारी खिलौने साथ उसके husband Santa Claus.
Her first name is a mystery, though she रै महरूम referred to as मरियम, जेसिका, layla, Annette, Heidi, or Martha.
HijackThis ( also hijackthis or hjt ) is an खोलें सोर्स enumerating औजार लिये microsoft Windows originally created by Merijn Bellekom, and later sold to Trend Micro.
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking विधि, rather than relying on a database of known spyware.
It scans a उपयोक्ता 's कंप्यूटर जल्दी, and displays browser hijacking locations, showing what entries are there.
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking, as uninformed उपयोग of इसके हटाना सुविधाएं can cause significant software damage to a computer.
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it lists most common locations जहाँ ब्राउजर hijacking कार्यकलाप can occur.
Browser hijacking can कारण मैलवेयर to be installed on a computer.
On February 16, 2012, Trend Micro released the HijackThis source कोड as खोलें सोर्स और it is now available on the SourceForge site.
Saddle Creek Records is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल आधारित in Omaha, Nebraska.
Started as a college class project on entrepreneurship, the लेबल थी संस्थापित by माइक mogis और जस्टिन oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ).
Mogis जल्द turned over his role in the company to Robb Nansel.
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road, a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha, and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist, currently of Bright Eyes, Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band, desaparecidos और राक्षस of लोक ), टिम kasher ( तब of slowdown वर्जिनिया, फिलहाल of कर्सिव और The Good Life ), and others.
collectively, they were known unofficially as the `` Creekers ''.
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show flyer, offering to `` खर्च an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD. )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated एंटिटी as a परिणाम of a class project on entrepreneurship.
Distribution is संभाला by the वैकल्पिक वितरण Alliance, which is under the Warner Music Group umbrella.
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a स्टाइल of म्यूज़िक पुकारा `` the Omaha Sound ``, characterized by a slight country twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, though, with the वृद्धि of अधिक इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ध्वनि ऐसे as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate सदस्य bands is somewhat समझाया by उनके इतिहास ; a number of the original members of the label attended grade school together.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to काठी क्रीक is टोली प्रेम, प्रारंभ by Conor Oberst in 2004.
The label opened arms to their first bands not based in Omaha in 2001 साथ रिलीज by अभी it 's ओवरहेड और sorry परिचय ड्रेसडेन.
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed, including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley, Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers from North Carolina ), Georgie जेम्स ( वॉशिंगटन d.C. ), दो gallants ( सैन फ्रांसिस्को ), और सबसे recently टोकियो पुलिस क्लबों ( टोरंटो ).
In 2005, खर्च an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक, a documentary detailing the first ten years of the record label 's history, was released.
The DVD features extensive interviews with the Saddle Creek bands, archival फुटेज, और विरल सजीव प्रदर्शन.
On June 8, 2007, the लेबल खोली उनके अपना म्यूज़िक स्थान नामित slowdown ( बाद the group Slowdown Virginia ), located in downtown Omaha, Nebraska.
The following is a सूची of एपीसोड for the television show Full House.
In total, there were 192 episodes filmed for the show over the course of its आठ सीज़न, इससे 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a situation comedy which क्रॉनिकल्स a विधवा पिता 's struggles of raising his three young daughters and the lives that they have touched.
The patriarch of the family, Danny ( bob saget ), आमंत्रण उसके brother-in-law जेसी ( जॉन stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ), to help raise his children ( Candace Cameron, Jodie Sweetin, and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ), after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver.
After episodes 88 and 89, Jesse marries Becky ( Lori loughlin ), और वे मूव into the attic.
Then, after episodes 104 and 105, बेकी और जेसी have जुड़वा लड़कों named Nicky and Alex ( Daniel and Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
The series ends with episode 192, `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '', जब मिशेल loses उसके मेमोरी और the परिवार कोशिशें to restore it.
Notice of स्टैम्प अधिनियम of 1765 in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम साथ गुस्सा और पूर्वानुमान of the demise of journalism.
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 जार्ज iii, c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा कर by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका, और it जरूरी that many printed materials in the colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.
These printed materials were legal documents, magazines, newspapers and many other types of paper प्रयुक्त throughout the colonies.
Like previous taxes, the stamp tax had to be सशुल्क in मान्य अंग्रेजों currency, not in colonial paper money.
The purpose of the कर थी to सहायता अदा लिये सैनिकों stationed in उत्तर अमेरिका after the British victory in the Seven Years ' War.
The British government felt that the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of इस सैन्य उपस्थिति, और चाहिए अदा at तनिक a portion of the expense.
The Stamp Act met ग्रेट प्रतिरोध in the colonies.
The colonies भेजा no प्रतिनिधि to पार्लियामेंट, and therefore had no influence over what taxes were raised, how they were levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists considered it a violation of उनके अधिकारों as अंग्रेजो to be taxed बगैर उनके सहमति —consent that only the colonial legislatures could grant.
Colonial सभाओं भेजा याचिकाएं और विरोध.
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City, reflecting the first significant joint colonial response to कोई अंग्रेजों माप, भी petitioned पार्लियामेंट और the किंग.
Local protest groups, led by colonial merchants and landowners, established connections through correspondence that created a loose गठबन्धन कि विस्तारित इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned हिंसक और destructive as the masses became involved.
Very soon all stamp tax distributors were intimidated into resigning their commissions, and the कर थी never effectively एकत्रित.
Opposition to the Stamp Act was नहीं सीमित to the colonies.
British merchants and निर्माताओं, जिनकी निर्यात to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic problems exacerbated by the tax, also pressured Parliament.
The Act थी repealed on कूच 18, 1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience, but Parliament affirmed its power to legislate for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act.
There followed a series of new taxes and regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
The episode played a major role in defining the grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक प्रतिरोध कि led to the अमरीकी Revolution in 1775.
pt-105 underway.
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed तेज़ आक्रमण शिल्प प्रयुक्त by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships.
`` pt '' is the US hull classification symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo ''.
The PT boat squadrons यहूद nicknamed `` the मच्छर fleet ''.
The Japanese पुकारा उन्हें `` Devil Boats ''.
The original pre– World War I torpedo नौकाएँ यहूद designed साथ `` displacement '' hulls.
They displaced up to 300 टन और the top speed was.
the pt नौकाएँ प्रयुक्त in संसार युद्ध ii यहूद निर्मित using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats.
They were much smaller ( 30–75 tons ) and तेज़ ( 35–40 knots ).
Both types were designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships साथ torpedoes, using अपेक्षाकृत high speed to get close, and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire.
They were much कम महंगी than विशाल warships.
PT boats यहूद much तेज़, छोटी, और सस्ता than conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels.
During World War II, American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers और numerous अन्य सतह शिल्प, ranging इससे छोटी नौकाएँ to विशाल supply ships.
PT boats also operated as gunboats विरूद्ध दुश्मन छोटी शिल्प, ऐसे as कराया barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport.
Good Friday is a religious अवकाश observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary.
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the paschal triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding ईस्टर संडे, and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is also known as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black Friday, or Easter Friday, हालांकि the latter properly refers to the शुक्रवार in ईस्टर सप्ताह.
Based on the details of the Canonical gospels, the Crucifixion of Jesus थी सबसे संभावित to have महरूम on a शुक्रवार ( the दिन पहले the sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33, by two different groups, and originally as ad 34 by इसहाक़ न्यूटन via the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars and the crescent of the moon.
A third method, using a completely different astronomical approach based on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( सतत साथ apostle पीटर 's सन्दर्भ to a `` चंद्रमा of रक्त '' in Acts 2:20 ), points to Friday, 3 April AD 33.
The Great Basin is the largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic watersheds in North America.
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography कि varies इससे the उत्तर अमरीकी कम पाइंट at badwater जलाशय to the उच्चतम point of the contiguous United States, less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney.
The प्रदेश spans अनेक physiographic divisions, biomes / ecoregions, and deserts.
Raster may refer to:
Raster graphics, graphical तकनीकों using arrays of पिक्सेल मान
Raster graphics एडिटर, a computer program
Raster scan, the pattern of चित्र readout, हस्तांतरण, भंडार, and reconstruction in television and computer images
Rasterisation, or rasterization, परिवर्तन of a वेक्टर चित्र to a raster image
Raster image processor, or RIP, a component of a मुद्रण प्रणाली कि performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt, a computer इन्टरनेट सिग्नल
Raster to vector, an चित्र परिवर्तन process
Raster बार, an प्रभाव used in computer demos
raster-noton, a record label
Rastrum, a device used in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक पांडुलिपियों to draw staff lines
Raster दस्तावेज़ ऑब्जेक्ट, a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary geatish नायिका और बाद turned किंग in the एपिक कविता नामित बाद उसे, एक of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English language.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी विरूद्ध the संयुक्त राज्य नवल आधार at पर्ल हार्बर, हवाई, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the संयुक्त किंगडम, the नीदरलैंड्स, और the संयुक्त राज्य.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें, शुभारम्भ इससे छह वायुयान carriers.
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were क्षतिग्रस्त, साथ चार being sunk.
Two of these यहूद बाद उठाया, और साथ the बाकी चार repaired, six battleships returned to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 u.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel and torpedo भंडार सुविधाएं, as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked.
जापानी नुकसान यहूद लाइट : 29 वायुयान और five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor थी captured.
The attack came as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों और led सीधे to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
the following दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the United States declared war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, जिससे था महरूम दमदार, disappeared.
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the neutrality पैट्रोल ) थी replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the U.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous historical precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations यहूद स्टिल जाहिर जारी, led अध्यक्ष Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त राज्य राजमार्ग कि रनों लिये in the Mountain - Northern Plains states of the United States.
The southern terminus of the route is at the संयुक्त states-mexico किनारा in el पासो, टेक्सास, connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45.
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna, North Dakota, where the रूट continues उत्तर as saskatchewan राजमार्ग 35.
In both the United States and Saskatchewan, Canada the रूट is ज्ञात as the canam Highway.
Sections of US 85 are considered part of the थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट एक्सप्रेसवे.
The United States presidential election of 1968 थी the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former Vice-President Richard Nixon, won the election over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, torn by riots and crime.
विश्लेषकों have argued the चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected लिये the पहला समय in बारह सालो.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of हिंसा कि शामिल the हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग, jr., और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी, फैली opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election प्रदर्शित the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's अभियान opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to end school segregation, he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North.
This was the last चुनाव in जिससे New York had the most votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, California gained the most electoral मत और रै remained the सबसे populous राज्य since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर state.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating प्रणालियों कि provides सीमित सूचना परिचय कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शन and running applications, processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The कार्य मैनेजर can भी be प्रयुक्त to नियत प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं, processor affinity, forcibly terminate processes, and shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows कार्य मैनेजर थी introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग, which had far fewer features.
The task सूची थी सक्षम of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल कार्यशील processes and killing them, or creating a new process.
In Windows XP only, a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn बंद, restart, log बंद और स्विच उपयोक्ता.
Earlier versions of Microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( microsoft Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running.
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are प्रयुक्त in the आधुनिक जापानी लिखने system along with hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), Hindu-Arabic numerals, and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet.
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the चाइनीज वर्ण वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` Han characters '' and is written using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John R Williams ( May 4, 1782 – October 20, 1854 ) was an American soldier, merchant, and politician जो is सबसे खूब ज्ञात लिये सेवारत as the पहला महापौर of डेट्रॉयट, मिशिगन.
In total, he served as डेट्रॉयट 's महापौर लिये पाँच other terms.
He भी थी a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the United States Army during the Black Hawk War.
A simple dry magnetic पोर्टेबल कम्पास.
a स्मार्टफोन कि can be प्रयुक्त as a compass because of the magnetometer inside.
An iPhone that can be प्रयुक्त as a geological कम्पास क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A सैन्य कम्पास कि was used during World War I.
A compass is a navigational यंत्र कि shows दिशानिर्देश in a फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth.
The frame of सन्दर्भ defines the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश ( or अंक ) – north, south, east, and west.
इंटरमीडिएट दिशानिर्देश are also defined.
Usually, a diagram called a कम्पास रोज़, जिससे shows the दिशानिर्देश ( साथ उनके names प्रायः abbreviated to initials ), is marked on the compass.
When the compass is in use, the rose is aligned साथ the रियल दिशानिर्देश in the फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ, so, लिये उदाहरण, the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north.
अक्सर, in जोड to the रोज़ or sometimes instead of it, angle markings in degrees are shown on the compass.
North corresponds to zero degrees, and the कोण बढ़ाएँ clockwise, so ईस्ट is 90 degrees, south is 180, and west is 270.
These numbers allow the कम्पास to दिखाएँ azimuths or bearings, which are commonly stated in this notation.
The magnetic compass was first invented as a यंत्र लिये भविष्यवाणी as जल्दी as the Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ).
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, and was used for मेरीटाइम नेविगेशन by 1111 to 1117.
The use of a compass is recorded in Western Europe between 1187 and 1202, और in फारस in 1232.
The dry कम्पास थी invented in यूरोपीय around 1300.
This was supplanted in the early 20th century by the liquid-filled चुम्बकीय कम्पास.
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( quechua : tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest empire in pre-Columbian America.
The administrative, political and military बीच of the साम्राज्य थी स्तिथ in कुज़्को in modern-day Peru.
The Inca civilization arose from the हाइलैंड्स of पेरू sometime in the जल्दी 13th century.
From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a variety of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of पश्चिमी दक्षिण अमेरिका, केन्द्रित on the andean पहाड़ सीमाएँ, सहित, besides पेरू, विशाल भाग of आधुनिक इक्वाडोर, western and south central Bolivia, northwest Argentina, north and central Chile, and southern Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia.
The official language of the साम्राज्य थी quechua, हालांकि hundreds of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken.
The Inca referred to उनके साम्राज्य as Tawantinsuyu which can be translated as The Four Regions or The Four United Provinces.
There were many local forms of worship, most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas ``, but the इन्का नेतृत्व प्रोत्साहित the इबादत of inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama.
The Incas considered their King, the Sapa इन्का, to be the `` चाइल्ड of the sun. ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several अनिवार्य नियामक भूमिकाएँ in सबसे पशु, सहित vertebrates and some invertebrates.
They are essential in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes, maintenance of acid–base balance, and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining नमक और जल संतुलन ).
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood, and हटाएँ wastes जिससे हैं diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing मूत्र, the गुर्दे excrete wastes ऐसे as urea and ammonium, and they are also responsible for the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids.
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the enzyme renin.
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum, the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries, and नाली into the युग्म renal veins.
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter, itself a युग्म ढांचा that empties into the urinary bladder.
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function, जबकि nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty concerned with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the kidney are diverse, but individuals साथ गुर्दा बीमारी अक्सर प्रदर्शक characteristic clinical features.
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic and nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, acute kidney injury, chronic गुर्दा बीमारी, urinary ट्रैक्ट संक्रमण, nephrolithiasis, और urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the सबसे आम वयस्क renal कर्कट is renal cell carcinoma.
Cancers, cysts, and some other renal conditions can be managed साथ हटाना of the गुर्दा, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration रेट, is persistently poor, dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options.
हालांकि वे हैं नहीं severely harmful, kidney stones can be painful and a nuisance.
The removal of kidney stones involves अल्ट्रासाउंड उपचार to ब्रेक up the पत्थरों into smaller pieces, which are then passed through the urinary tract.
One common symptom of kidney stones is a sharp pain in the medial/lateral खण्ड of the निम्नतर back.
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held insurance brokerage कड़, providing insurance, risk management and employee benefits solutions.
In addition to its कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी मुख्यालय, lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries.
Lockton is currently home to अधिक than 4,450 शरीक worldwide.
The company was founded by Jack Lockton in 1966 और रै चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm.
lockton serves a चौड़ी सरणी of उद्योग साथ services that include risk management, casualty, surety, professional indemnity and more.
For 46 years, lockton posted असाधारण सशुल्क विकास, with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012.
Lockton लाभ समूह : lockton’s कर्मचारी benefit’s टोली works closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients.
the lockton लाभ समूह provides सेवाएं including compliance, executive benefits, health and welfare, health risk solutions, retirement and more.
Lockton अपनापन : lockton अपनापन, an संबद्ध of lockton कंपनियाँ, meets the insurance needs of affinity groups, franchises, professional organizations, and associations of all sizes.
Lockton Affinity offers a किस्में of बीमे उत्पाद options and programs.
उत्पाद शामिल : सामान्य देयता, पेशेवर देयता, प्रॉपर्टी, Workers Compensation, Directors & Officers Liability, Commercial Auto, Specialty Coverage, Excess, Health Plans and more.
Lockton International : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and Ireland, as well as कार्यालयों throughout एशिया और लैटिन America.
In Europe, Lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय is a संगी in eos risq, europe’s अग्रणी insurance broking and risk management consultancy.
EOS RISQ is an equity-based यूरोपीय partnership of major independent insurance brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe.
Lockton International provides specialized solutions for निजी लाइनों, sme’s and major multi-national clients.
White चॉकलेट is a चॉकलेट derivative.
it commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, शुगर, मिल्क solids and salt, and is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance.
The melting point of cocoa मक्खन, इसके प्राथमिक cocoa सेम घटक, is high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` Don '' blankenship ( born कूच 14, 1950 ) थी अध्यक्ष और सीईओ of Massey Energy Co., the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States.
He served in those roles from November 30, 2000, जबतक दिसम्बर 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican party and participant in local and राज्य राजनीती, विशेषकर in उसके घर राज्य of West Virginia.
He has frequently spoken out publicly about politics, the पर्यावरण, संघ, और कोयले उत्पादन.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings दिखाएँ blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8 million in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
His 2009 अदा represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 and almost double his compensation package in 2007.
Blankenship also received a deferred compensation पैकेज valued at $ 27.2 लाख in 2009.
On December 3, 2010, Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the समाप्त of the साल, और होता be succeeded by massey अध्यक्ष Baxter F. Phillips Jr.
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in English to describe a श्वान 's छाल.
धनुष wow may also refer to:
Bow Wow ( बैंड ), a जापानी hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper ), an अमरीकी rapper and actor
Bow Wow Sauce, a सॉस विकसित in the Cotswolds region of England
धनुष wow wow, a UK new wave band
`` Bow wow '', a सोंग by the fiery furnaces from their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My मामा दावत me जैसे a श्वान ) '', a सोंग composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally `` not to pick up something '' ) is a failure to exercise the परवाह कि a reasonably दूरदर्शी व्यक्ति होता कसरत in like circumstances.
The area of tort law known as negligence involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness, not intentional harm.
According to Jay M. Feinman of the rutgers विश्वविद्यालयों School of Law ;
`` The core idea of negligence is that people चाहिए कसरत उचित परवाह जब वे अधिनियम by लेने खाता of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people. ''
`` those जो go personally or लाओ प्रॉपर्टी जहाँ वे जान कि वे or it may आइये into टक्कर with the persons or property of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision. ''
Fletcher v rylands ( [ 1866 ] lr 1 Ex 265 )
Through civil वाद, if an घायल व्यक्ति proves कि another व्यक्ति acted negligently to कारण उनके injury, they can recover damages to compensate for their harm.
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the घायल अभियोक्ता to मुआवजे लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह, प्रॉपर्टी, दिमागी well-being, financial status, or intimate relationships.
However, because negligence cases are very fact-specific, this सामान्य परिभाषा करता नहीं fully बताइये the अवधारणा of जब the विधि होगा require one person to compensate another for losses caused by accidental injury.
Further, the law of negligence at common law is only एक पहलू of the विधि of liability.
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover compensation in a negligence action, the nature and extent of those क्षतिपूर्ति हैं नहीं the primary focus of negligence cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion कि contains nevus कोशिकाएं ( a प्रकार of melanocyte ).
Some sources equate the पद mole साथ `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other sources आरक्षित the पद `` mole '' लिये other purposes.
The majority of moles appear दौरान the पहला दो दशकों of a person’s life, while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles.
Acquired moles are a form of benign neoplasm, while जन्मजात औज़ार, or जन्मजात nevi, हैं माना a नाबालिग malformation or hamartoma और may be at a उच्चतर risk for melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( अंतर्गत the स्किन ) or a pigmented growth on the skin, formed mostly of a type of cell known as a melanocyte.
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting एजेंट, melanin, is responsible for their dark color.
Moles are a member of the family of स्किन lesions ज्ञात as nevi.
The comprehensive metabolic panel, or रासायनिक स्क्रीन, ( cmp ; cpt कोड 80053 ) is a फलक of 14 रक्त परीक्षण जिससे serves as an initial broad medical screening tool.
The CMP provides a rough जाँच of गुर्दा फलन, जिगर फलन, and electrolyte and fluid balance, but it is far from perfect.
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives and thus the cbc may need to be दोहराया लिये a patient ( or replaced with a more specific test ).
The CMP is an expanded version of the basic metabolic panel ( BMP ), जिससे करता नहीं शामिल जिगर परीक्षण.
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as भाग of a दिनचर्या शारीरिक परिक्षा, or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease, such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names for the panel of परीक्षण have महरूम chem 12, रसायन फलक, रसायन स्क्रीन, sma 12, sma 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ).
The परीक्षण हैं performed on मशीने आधारित on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas extraction by देशों in घन मीटर per year.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring हाइड्रोकार्बन गैस मिश्रण consisting primarily of मिथेन, लकिन commonly including varying amounts of other hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and hydrogen sulfide.
Natural gas is an energy source often प्रयुक्त लिये हीटिंग, कुकिंग, and electricity generation.
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a chemical feedstock in the manufacture of plastics and other commercially महत्वपूर्ण सशुल्क रसायन.
Natural gas is मिला in गहन भूमिगत प्राकृतिक चट्टान formations or संबद्ध with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates.
Petroleum is also another संसाधन मिला in निकटता to and with natural gas.
Most natural gas was created over time by two mechanisms : biogenic और thermogenic.
Biogenic gas is created by methanogenic जीवों in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at वृहद तापमान और pressure, thermogenic gas is created from buried organic material.
Before natural gas can be प्रयुक्त as a ईंधन, it जरूर undergo प्रसंस्करण to हटाएँ impurities, including water, to meet the specifications of marketable natural gas.
The by-products of प्रसंस्करण शामिल इथेन, प्रोपेन, butanes, pentanes, और उच्चतर आणविक वज़न hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ), carbon dioxide, water vapor, and sometimes helium and nitrogen.
Natural gas is often informally referred to बस as गैस, विशेषकर when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal.
This page is about the कल्पना Movers band.
For information about the tv दिखाएँ अभिनीत the बैंड, देखिए कल्पना Movers ( TV series ).
Imagination Movers is a band formed in New ऑरलियन्स, louisiana, in 2003.
The lineup includes समृद्ध कॉलिन्स, स्कॉट durbin, डेव Poche, and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith.
Members of the समूह यहूद longtime friends and neighbors.
The group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to local PBS affiliates in New Orleans.
WLAE-TV was the first to take an ब्याज in the समूह और बाद introduced उन्हें to बेथ Courtney, the President & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting.
Soon after, LPB began airing one-minute videos उत्पादित by the कल्पना मूवर्स themselves.
The मूवर्स निर्मित a sizable क्षेत्रीय following by setting educational songs for kids to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well.
They sold more than 100,000 नक़ल of उनके self-produced CDs and DVDs.
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas, '' `` Calling All Movers, '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with उनके ग्रास जड़ें dvd `` हलचल it up '' have, संयुक्त, जीती चौदह नेशनल पुरस्कार, इससे ऐसे समूह as the National Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice.
In early 2005, Disney took सूचना, और initiated negotiations to add the मूवर्स to the company 's roster.
These were interrupted in August when the flood protection designed and built by the Army corps of इंजीनियर्स to protect नई ऑरलियन्स failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the बैंड 's दफ्तर, as खूब as the घरों of कॉलिन्स, durbin and Poche – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006.
in 2008, वॉल्ट डिज़्नी रिकॉर्ड introduced the कल्पना मूवर्स ' music to the nation with the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD, `` Juice Box Heroes. ''
In September 2008, a 30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the समूह began airing on the डिज़्नी चैनल 's प्रीस्कूल प्रोग्रामिंग block known as Playhouse Disney, and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement, Disney Junior.
the मूवर्स लिखें और perform all the songs on their show.
Moreover, the Imagination Movers have received critical kudos for उनके सजीव कॉन्सर्ट प्रदर्शन.
In October 2009, the कल्पना मूवर्स started the `` Live from the Idea Warehouse Concert Tour 2009 ''.
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live प्रदर्शन शामिल लोट of उनके पसंदीदा गीतों और नाचना, as खूब as वीडियो दिखावे of Warehouse Mouse.
Beginning in early-February 2011 and wrapping up in late May 2011, the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे, '' playing अधिक than 100 shows in 50+ शहरों आरपार North America.
From March to October 2012, the Imagination Movers toured North America on their post-disney `` rock-o-matic '' दौरे.
The show maintained अनेक तत्व of the असली tv अवधारणा, ऐसे as an on-stage `` विचार आपात '' और अनेक सेट इससे उनके older catalogue ; however, with the departure of Wendy Calio back to her native Hawaii, the character `` Nina '', along with her musical numbers, is not present.
The tour promotes the कल्पना मूवर्स ' नई album/dvd release, `` Rock-O-Matic '', which features all new music from the band.
The एल्बम itself is उत्पादित independently of डिज़्नी और रै a notably अधिक वयस्क, contemporary rock-and-roll sound, though still very appropriate for children.
अनेक प्रदर्शन तिथियाँ यहूद स्थानांतरित to later in 2012 to benefit from the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers TV show now playing daily on Disney Junior.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी Australia, including Tasmania.
Together with the four प्रजाति of एकिडना, it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a क्रमांक of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of इस egg-laying, बतख -billed, बीवर -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it, with some considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an महत्वपूर्ण विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the राज्य of नई South Wales.
Until the जल्दी 20th सदी, it थी hunted for its fur, but it is now protected throughout its range.
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success और the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras (, from chupar `` to suck '' and cabra `` goat '', literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit भाग of the americas.
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( जहाँ ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ), मैक्सिको, और the संयुक्त राज्य, विशेषकर in the latter 's Latin American communities.
The name comes from the एनिमल 's reported आदत of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, especially goats.
Physical descriptions of the प्राणी vary.
Eyewitness sightings have महरूम claimed as जल्दी as 1995 in प्यूर्टो रीको, और have चूंकि महरूम reported as far north as Maine, and as far south as Chile, and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines.
It is supposedly a heavy creature, the size of a small bear, with a row of spines reaching इससे the गर्दन to the आधार of the tail.
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण, जबकि सबसे रिपोर्ट्स in उत्तरी मैक्सिको और the दक्षिणी संयुक्त States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange.
Biologists and wildlife management officials view the chupacabra as a समकालीन legend.
The North American Free Trade अनुबंध ( nafta ) is an अनुबंध signed by Canada, Mexico, and the United States, creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America.
The agreement आए into फ़ोर्स on January 1, 1994.
It superseded the Canada–United राज्य फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American Agreement on पर्यावरणीय सहयोग ( naaec ) और the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment and is assessed by subjective मूल्यांकन ( ansi / ashrae Standard 55 ).
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is one of the महत्वपूर्ण लक्ष्य of HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) design engineers.
The Predicted Mean Vote ( pmv ) मॉडल स्टैंड among the सबसे पहचाना थर्मल सुकून models.
It was विकसित using सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मा संतुलन और प्रायोगिक data collected in a controlled climate chamber under steady state conditions.
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in a controlled climate, it is not suitable for अनुप्रयोग in naturally हवादार स्पेसेस जिससे प्रायः have ऊँची स्तर of air movement.
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of empirical statistical मॉडल of थर्मल सुकून in naturally हवादार स्पेसेस ज्ञात as अनुकूली मॉडल.
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their environment, and controlling their thermal सुकून by अर्थात् of कपडे or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to थर्मल सुकून in sealed इमारतें, in जिससे occupants अनुभव the environment passively.
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction, convection, विकिरण, और evaporative ऊष्मा loss.
Thermal comfort is maintained when the heat generated by human चयापचय is अनुमत to dissipate, यूँ maintaining थर्मल equilibrium with the surroundings.
It has been long recognized that the sensation of feeling hot or ठंडा is नहीं बस निर्भर on एयर तापमान अलोन.
Thermal comfort calculations according to ansi/ashrae मानक 55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55.
Durante degli एलीगियरी, बस referred to as दांते (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), was a major Italian poet of the Middle Ages.
His Divine Comedy, originally पुकारा ' और बाद पुकारा ' by boccaccio, is widely considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature.
In Italy he is known as ' ( `` the परम् Poet '' ) or just '.
He, Petrarch और boccaccio हैं भी ज्ञात as `` the तीन स्रोतों '' or `` the three crowns ''.
Dante is भी पुकारा the `` पिता of the Italian language ''.
मुख्यालय ( कोबे, जापानी )
( ) is a tire and रबर कम्पनी आधारित in Japan.
it is भाग of the Sumitomo Group.
The company traces its origins to 1909, when the sumitomo समूह बना an निवेश in dunlop जापानी, the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber.
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close business relationship, and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired control of dunlop जापानी और renamed it sumitomo रबर Industries Ltd.
In 1985, when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by btr पीएलसी, the कम्पनी acquired the ऑटोमोबाइल टायर एसेट of Dunlop, including the right to use the Dunlop brand on automobile tires.
The acquisition did not include the US and Australian व्यवसायों, जिससे यहूद separately स्वामित्व, लकिन in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management.
In 1997, Sumitomo formed a joint venture with goodyear टायर और रबर कम्पनी, by जिससे goodyear और sumitomo सहमत to manufacture tires for each other 's markets, including Dunlop branded tires.
As part of the agreement, Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres, the UK company which sumitomo था formed, और in dunlop टायर Corporation.
Goodyear and Sumitomo also made निवेश in each other.
Today, the company makes a चौड़ी दायरा of रबर based products, including automobile tires, golf balls and tennis balls.
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated विकास environments ( आईडीई ) विकसित by microsoft कि are lightweight versions of the Microsoft Visual Studio product line.
Express Editions were conceived शुरूआत साथ विज़ुअल स्टुडियो 2005.
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use और easy-to-learn ides लिये उपयोक्ता अन्य than पेशेवर software developers, such as hobbyists and students.
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching approximately across eight अल्पाइन देशों इससे ऑस्ट्रिया और स्लोवेनियाई in the ईस्ट, स्विट्ज़रलैंड, liechtenstein, जर्मनी, फ़्रांस to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south.
The kyu यहूद formed over सैंकड़ों of लाखो of years as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and फोल्डिंग into ऊँची पहाड़ चोटियों ऐसे as मोंट blanc और the matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian किनारा, और at is the उच्चतम पहाड़ in the Alps.
The Alpine प्रदेश क्षेत्रफल contains अनेक चोटियों उच्चतर than, known as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in the mountains वर्षण स्तर vary greatly और climatic शर्तें consist of distinct zones.
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher peaks to elevations of, और पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss grow in रॉकी क्षेत्रों in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations.
प्रमाण of इंसान habitation in the Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era.
A mummified man, संकल्पित to be 5,000 सालो बूढ़ा, थी खोजा on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991.
By the 6th सदी bc, the Celtic La Tène culture was well established.
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps with a herd of हाथियों, और the romans था settlements in the region.
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one of the mountain passes with an फौज of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th सदियां देखी an influx of naturalists, लेखक, और कलाकारों, in particular the Romantics, followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries, with the exception of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; एडोल्फ हिटलर रखा a आधार of आपरेशन in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war.
The Alpine region has a दमदार सांस्कृतिक पहचान.
The traditional culture of farming, cheesemaking, और woodworking स्टिल exists in अल्पाइन गांवों, हालांकि the पर्यटक industry began to grow early in the 20th century and expanded greatly after World War II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century.
The Winter Olympic Games have महरूम hosted in the स्विस, फ्रेंच, इतालवी, Austrian and German Alps.
At present the region is घर to 14 लाख लोगों and has 120 million annual visitors.
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a अक्षर इससे the एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न series Family Guy.
वो is voiced by लेखक एलेक्स borstein और पहला appeared on टेलीविज़न, साथ with the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
Lois was created और designed by श्रेणी creator Seth MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve, a short made by macfarlane जिससे प्रदर्शित a middle-aged अक्षर नामित Larry and an intellectual dog, Steve.
After the pilot was दिए the ग्रीन लाइट, the griffin परिवार appeared on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow ``.
लोइस is the माँ of the Griffin family.
With her husband Peter, she has था तीन children : मेग, Chris, and Stewie.
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother, despite her admitting to होने a ड्रग उपयोक्ता, a recovering मेथ नशेड़ी kleptomaniac.
Lois रै भी था अनेक अफेयर्स, one of which allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg.
She has appeared in अन्य मीडिया relating to परिवार guy—including a video game, commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise.
Lois 's distinctive नई यॉर्क एक्सेंट originated इससे a अक्षर in a स्टेज दिखाएँ कि एलेक्स Borstein had performed in, which was largely inspired by a relative who grew up on Long Island, New York.
Family हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा ( बास्क as आरंभिक भाषा )
प्रतिशत of विद्यार्थी पंजीकृत in बास्क language schools ( 2000–2005 ).
Location of the basque-language प्रांतों भीतर Spain and France
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people, who inhabit the Basque Country, a प्रदेश spanning an क्षेत्रफल in northeastern स्पेन और southwestern फ़्रांस.
It is spoken by 27 % of Basques in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ).
Of these, 663,035 सजीव in the स्पेनी भाग of the बास्क country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French part.
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France, it is customary to refer to three ancient provinces in फ़्रांस और चार स्पेनी provinces.
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the Spanish autonomous समुदायों of the बास्क देश और नावारा और in the पश्चिमी half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic बास्क देश incorporating the परंपरागत स्पेनी प्रांतों of biscay, Gipuzkoa, and Álava, which retain their existence as politico-administrative divisions.
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily आबादी by जातीय basques, लकिन बास्क थी, at तनिक जबतक the 1990s, नहीं बोला as a देशी भाषा in सबसे of álava, पश्चिमी भाग of biscay और सेंट्रल and southern areas of Navarre, either because it had been replaced by Spanish along the centuries, in some areas, or because it had never been spoken there, in other areas.
In southwestern France, the ancient Basque-populated प्रांतों यहूद labourd, निम्नतर Navarre, and Soule.
They and other regions were consolidated into a सिंगल département in 1790 under the name Basses-Pyrénées, a name which persisted until 1970.
A standardized रूप of the बास्क भाषा, called Euskara Batua, was developed by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s.
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal situations ( शिक्षा, द्रव्यमान मीडिया, साहित्य ), और इस is इसके प्रमुख use today.
The role of this standard Basque language depends on the linguistic शैक्षणिक मॉडल of प्रत्येक प्रदेश और प्रत्येक स्कूल.
In most areas of the Spanish Basque देश, the शैक्षणिक मॉडल d, जहाँ सब विषय हैं सिखाया in बास्क, मगर `` स्पेनी भाषा and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model.
In France, the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide range of Basque language educational needs up to the छठे रूप, जबकि प्रायः struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints.
Apart from this standardized version, there are five main Basque dialects : Bizkaian, Gipuzkoan, and Upper Navarrese in स्पेन, और navarrese–lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ).
Although they take their names इससे the उल्लेखित ऐतिहासिक प्रांतों, the dialect boundaries are not congruent with province boundaries.
The President, Directors and Company, of the Bank of the United राज्य, commonly ज्ञात as the पहला बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य, was a central bank, chartered for a term of twenty years, by the United States Congress on February 25, 1791.
Establishment of the Bank was included in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and monetary power ( along with a federal mint and excise कर ) championed by सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, पहला सचिव of the Treasury.
Hamilton believed a सेंट्रल बैंको थी जरुरी to stabilize और improve the स्वदेश 's क्रेडिट, and to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution.
Officially proposed to the first session of the पहला कॉंग्रेस in 1790, हैमिल्टन 's Bank faced widespread resistance from opponents of increased federal power.
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and जेम्स मैडिसन led the विपक्ष, जिससे claimed कि the बैंको थी असंवैधानिक, and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population.
The First Bank building is now a National Historic लैंडमार्क स्तिथ in फिलाडेल्फिया, पेन्सिलवेनिया भीतर स्वतंत्रता National Historical Park.
James Wesley Marsters ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an American कर्ता और संगीतकार.
Marsters first came to the ध्यान of the सामान्य पब्लिक playing the लोकप्रिय अक्षर स्पाइक, a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
Since then, he has gone on to play अन्य विज्ञान fiction भूमिकाएँ, ऐसे as the एलियन supervillain brainiac on the सुपरमैन -inspired श्रेणी smallville, the omnisexual समय मुसाफ़िर Captain John Hart in British science-fiction show Torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting भूमिका in the 2007 movie P.S.
I Love You and as the प्रमुख विपक्षी, piccolo, in the 2009 fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution.
He appeared as a recurring character in the पहला ऋतु of the पुनरुद्धार of Hawaii 5-0.
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the निषेचित अंडा बाद धारणा.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore, elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether this production is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary एनॉलॉग of hcg, ज्ञात as luteinizing हार्मोन ( LH ), is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार उत्पाद and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, known by her stage name Beyoncé ( ; born September 4, 1981 ), is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, dancer, and actress.
Born and raised in Houston, टेक्सास, वो performed in गायन और नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड पहले forming in 1990 a समूह with Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child.
Once signed to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड, the लड़कियों subsequently became one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time.
The group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil and Knowles suffered इससे अवसाद कि lasted for a number of years.
During the group 's hiatus, Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously in प्रेम ( 2003 ), जिससे अर्जित उसके पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और रै बेची a कुल of 4.9 लाख नक़ल in the US alone.
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love, '' considered by VH1 to be the `` महानतम सोंग of the 00 's, '' और `` baby Boy. ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005, Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the शीर्ष पाँच singles `` déjà Vu ``, `` Irreplaceable ``, and `` Beautiful Liar ``.
Her performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) earned her दो सुनहरी ग्लोब nominations.
Knowles ' work playing etta जेम्स in कि फिल्मी प्रेरित her subsequent album I Am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) जिससे शाखित हिट्स `` if i यहूद a लड़के ``, `` Single Ladies ( Put a Ring on It ) ``, `` Halo ``, and `` Sweet Dreams ``.
The album also helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010, breaking the रिकार्ड लिये most Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night.
Her चौथी एल्बम 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards परंपरागत r & b और became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200.
In जनवरी 2012, नॉलेस दिया birth to daughter Blue Ivy Carter, her first child with husband Jay-Z.
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड साथ नियति 's चाइल्ड ), and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time.
The Recording Industry Association of America ( riaa ) पहचाना नॉलेस as the शीर्ष certified कलाकार of the 2000s.
In 2009, Billboard named her the शीर्ष रेडियो गीतों कलाकार of the दशक और क्रमित उसके the शीर्ष मादा कलाकार और the fourth Artist of the Decade.
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated स्त्री in ग्रैमी पुरस्कार इतिहास, receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; अन्य accolades शामिल 12 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, 7 Billboard Awards including a Millennium Award, and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child.
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a song written by ब्रूस robison और पहला अंकित on his 1998 album Wrapped.
It थी बाद covered by टिम McGraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill.
released in जुलाई 2001, McGraw 's version was the second single from McGraw 's Set This Circus Down album.
The song reached Number One on the बिलबोर्ड hot देश singles & ट्रैक्स ( अभी hot देश गीतों ) charts.
Dear John is a 2010 American romantic drama - war फिल्मी अभिनीत अमांडा seyfried और चेनिंग Tatum.
It was released theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका on February 5, 2010.
The film was directed by Lasse hallström, और it is an अनुकूलन of निकोलस Sparks 's novel of the same name.
It follows the life of a soldier ( चेनिंग टैटम ) बाद he जलप्रपात in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ).
They decide to एक्सचेंज अक्षर to each other after he is deployed to the war.
The movie was filmed in 2009 in चार्ल्सटन, South Carolina.
Despite receiving ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ, the फिल्मी बना a दमदार बक्सा दफ्तर प्रदर्शन, knocking off Avatar after seven weekends in first place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The film was released on may 25, 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray.
ये हैं सूचियाँ of the व्यस्ततम एयरपोर्ट in the United States.
hartsfield–jackson Atlanta International Airport is the busiest single airport in the United States.
However, all of the New York City metropolitan area 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest विमानक्षेत्र प्रणाली in the संयुक्त राज्य, दूसरी in the संसार in शर्तें of यात्री ट्रैफ़िक, and first in the world in terms of total flight operations.
Dora the एक्सप्लोरर is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by Chris Gifford, Valerie Walsh, and Eric Weiner.
Dora the एक्सप्लोरर became a regular series in 2000.
The show is carried on the निकलोडियन केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल, including the associated Nick Jr. channel.
It aired on सीबीएस जबतक September 2006.
A Spanish-dubbed version पहला aired as भाग of a उपनाम en español ब्लाक on एनबीसी सार्वभौमिक -owned telemundo through September 2006 ; since April 2008, this version of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block.
Santa Fe ( ; ( tewa : ogha po'oge, ) ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico.
It is the fourth-largest नगर in the राज्य and is the seat of.
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in स्पेनी ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 67,947 in the 2010 census.
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area जिससे encompasses सब of सांता fe काउंटी और is part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area.
The city’s full name when founded was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San फ्रांसिस्को de asís ( “the royal कस्बा of the पावन आस्था of st. फ्रांसिस of Assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as पेप्सी, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 और introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय, it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of American patriots that originated in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी अंग्रेजों colonies.
The group was formed to protect the rights of the colonists और to लो to the गलियों विरूद्ध the कर by the British government.
They are best known लिये undertaking the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी in 1773, जिससे led to the असहनीय अधिनियमों ( an तीव्र crackdown by the British government ), and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
Osaka किला
is a city in the Kansai region of Japan 's main island of Honshu, a designated city under the Local Autonomy Law, the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest भाग of the keihanshin metropolis, जिससे comprises तीन प्रमुख शहरों of जापानी, Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe.
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay, Osaka is Japan 's third largest नगर by जनसांख्यिकी बाद टोकियो ( special wards ) and Yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest metropolitan areas अत्यधिक क्रमित in the संसार, साथ nearly 19 लाख लोगों, और by जीडीपी the दूसरी largest क्षेत्रफल in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world.
Historically the वाणिज्यिक बीच of जापानी, ओसाका कृत्यों as एक of the command centers for the Japanese economy.
The ratio between daytime and night time जनसांख्यिकी is 141 %, the उच्चतम in जापानी, highlighting its status as an economic center.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million, the third in the country, but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 लाख, दूसरी तभी बाद टोकियो ( combining the खास wards of टोकियो, जिससे is नहीं a single incorporated city, for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal ईदो काल क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of व्यापार लिये राइस, बनाना the first modern futures exchange market in the world.
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen, The Little Mermaid tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत मरमेड जो सपनो of बनने इंसान.
Written, directed, and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker, with म्यूज़िक by एलन menken और हावर्ड ashman, the फिल्मी सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें jodi बेंसन, क्रिस्टोफर डेनियल barnes, पैट कैरल, सैमुएल E. राइट, Jason Marin, Kenneth Mars, Buddy Hacket, and Rene Auberjonois.
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics श्रेणी, the छोटी मरमेड थी released to थिएटर on नवम्बर 14, 1989 to largely positive reviews, garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial release, and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross.
After the success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life वापस into the आर्ट of डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता films बाद a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or वाणिज्यिक असफलताओं उत्पादित by डिज़्नी कि दिनाँक वापस to the early 1970s.
It also चिह्नित the प्रारंभ of the era ज्ञात as the Disney Renaissance.
A stage अनुकूलन of the फिल्मी साथ a किताब by डग राइट और अतिरिक्त songs by Alan Menken and new lyricist Glenn Slater opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up photo of a metal चमचा भर साथ a viscous, clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug लोकप्रिय in the हिप हॉप जातियाँ in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त States, originating in Houston, Texas.
Its main ingredient is नुस्खा -strength खांसी syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough syrup is typically mixed with संघटक ऐसे as sprite नरम पेय or पहाड़ ओस और pieces of Jolly Rancher candy.
The purplish hue of purple पिया आता इससे dyes in the cough syrup.
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank, including sizzurp, lean, syrup, drank, barre, जामुनी जेली, टेक्सास tea, and Tsikuni.
first/given, मध्य, और last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as example.
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members and many विस्तारित परिवार सदस्यों.
He shared his family नाम साथ सबसे परिवार members.
A given name, in Western contexts प्रायः referred to as a पहला नाम, is a निजी नाम कि specifies और differentiates between सदस्यों of a समूह of individuals, especially in a family, all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ).
A given name is purposefully दिए, प्रायः by a चाइल्ड 's अभिभावक at or near birth, in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name.
A given name is sometimes legally बदला through a name change.
Given names are often used in a परिचित और दोस्ताना manner in अनौपचारिक situations.
In more formal situations the surname is used बजाय, जबतक it is जरुरी to फर्क between लोगों साथ the same surname.
The मुहावरा `` on a first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a given name.
The western style of having both a family name ( surname ) और a दिए नाम is दूर इससे सार्वभौमिक.
In many countries it is आम लिये ordinary people to have only one name ( a mononym ).
Hydrochloric acid is a clear, colourless समाधान of हाइड्रोजन chloride ( H Cl ) in water.
It is a अत्यधिक क्षयकारी, दमदार खनिज एसिड with many industrial uses.
Hydrochloric acid is found naturally in gastric acid.
Historically called muriatic एसिड, और आत्माओं of नमक, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड थी उत्पादित from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt.
It first appeared दौरान the पुनर्जागरण, and then it was used by chemists such as Glauber, Priestley and Davy in their scientific research.
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale उत्पादन of विनाइल chloride लिये पीवीसी plastic, and MDI / TDI for polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale applications, including household cleaning, production of gelatin and other खाना एडिटिव, descaling, और चमड़े प्रसंस्करण.
About 20 million टन of हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid are produced annually.
Wheat ( Triticum spp. ) is a cereal grain, originally from the Levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands, लकिन अभी cultivated विश्वव्यापी.
In 2010, world production of wheat was 651 million tons, making it the third most-produced खाद्यान्न बाद मक्का ( 844 लाख टन ) और राइस ( 672 million tons ).
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in that year was 682 लाख टन, बाद मक्का ( 817 लाख टन ), and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ).
इस अनाज is grown on अधिक जमीन क्षेत्रफल than any other commercial food.
World trade in wheat is greater than लिये सब अन्य फसलों संयुक्त.
Globally, wheat is the leading source of सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन in इंसान खाना, having a उच्चतर प्रोटीन सामग्री than soybeans or the other major cereals, maize ( corn ) or rice.
In terms of total उत्पादन tonnages प्रयुक्त लिये खाना, it is फिलहाल दूसरी to rice as the main human food crop and ahead of maize, after allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds.
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based समाजों at the प्रारंभ of सभ्यता because it was one of the first crops that could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the Fertile Crescent, including the babylonian और assyrian empires.
Wheat अनाज is a स्टेपल खाना प्रयुक्त to मेक आटा लिये leavened, चपटा और steamed breads, बिस्कुट, cookies, cakes, breakfast cereal, pasta, noodles, couscous and for fermentation to make beer, other alcoholic beverages, or biofuel.
गेहूं is planted to a सीमित extent as a forage crop for livestock, and its straw can be used as a construction material for roofing thatch.
The whole grain can be milled to leave बस the भ्रूणपोष लिये श्वेत flour.
The by-products of इस हैं चोकर and germ.
The whole grain is a concentrated source of vitamins, minerals, और प्रोटीन, जबकि the परिष्कृत grain is mostly starch.
मुद्रण
To publish is to मेक सामग्री उपलब्धियाँ to the general public.
While specific use of the term may vary among देशों, it is प्रायः लागू to टेक्स्ट, बिंब, or अन्य audio-visual content on any traditional medium, including paper ( newspapers, magazines, catalogs, etc. ).
The शब्द प्रकाशन अर्थात् the अधिनियम of publishing, and also refers to any printed copies.
Melissa & Joey is an एबीसी परिवार असली टेलीविज़न श्रेणी अभिनीत Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence.
it पहला aired on ABC Family on August 17, 2010.
The श्रेणी फ़ॉलो लोकल राजनेता mel बुर्के ( मेलिसा जोन हार्ट ) और जो longo ( Joey Lawrence ), whom Mel hires to look after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen episodes, which began airing on may 30, 2012 और ended on अगस्त 29, 2012.
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across निशाना ऑडियंस 18–34, 18–49 और 12–34 जनसांख्यिकी.
On August 17, 2012, ABC Family renewed Melissa & जॉय लिये a तीसरा ऋतु, नियत to premiere in spring 2013.
The Dharma wheel, often used to represent the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold Path (, ) is one of the प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध, जो वर्णित it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of कष्ट ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening.
It is प्रयुक्त to develop इनसाइट into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) and to eradicate greed, hatred, and delusion.
the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is the चौथी of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the Noble Eightfold Path is, in turn, an understanding of the Four Noble Truths.
It is also known as the मध्य पाथ or मध्य रास्ता.
All eight तत्व of the पाथ शुरू साथ the शब्द `` सही '', which translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
These denote completion, togetherness, and coherence, and can also suggest the होश of `` पूर्ण '' or `` आदर्श ''.
'Samma ' is also translated as `` wholesome '', `` हिकमत '' and `` skillful ''.
In बौद्ध प्रतीकवाद, the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is प्रायः represented by means of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ), whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path.
The Grammy Award for Song of the साल is an सम्मान प्रस्तुत at the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards.
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to `` honor artistic उपलब्धि, तकनीकी proficiency और overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग, without regard to album sales or chart position. ''
Economics is the social विज्ञान कि analyzes the उत्पादन, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ', `` management of a household, administration '' ) इससे ( ', `` हाउस '' ) + ( ', `` कस्टम '' or `` विधि '' ), hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) ''.
Political अर्थव्यवस्था थी the पहले नाम लिये the विषय, लकिन अर्थशास्त्रियों in the लेट 19th सदी सुझाया `` अर्थशास्त्र '' as a shorter पद लिये `` आर्थिक science '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the subject is how economic agents behave or interact और कैसा economies कार्य.
Consistent with this, a primary textbook भेद is between microeconomics and macroeconomics.
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic elements in the economy, including individual agents ( such as households और firms or as खरीदार और विक्रेता ) और बाज़ार, और उनके interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the संपूर्ण अर्थव्यवस्था और मुद्दे affecting it, सहित unemployment, inflation, economic growth, and monetary and fiscal policy.
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium नेक्सस '' ) और शास्त अर्थशास्त्र ( अधिक `` कट्टरपंथी '' और dealing साथ the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ).
Economic analysis may be लागू throughout समाज, as in business, finance, health care, and government, but also to such diverse subjects as crime, education, the family, law, politics, religion, social institutions, war, and science.
At the turn of the 21st century, the expanding domain of अर्थशास्त्र in the सोशल sciences रै महरूम वर्णित as economic imperialism.
An increasing number of अर्थशास्त्रियों have पुकारा लिये increased जोर on environmental sustainability ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics.
This is a list of Schedule IV drugs under the नियंत्रित substances Act for the United States.
जरूरी निष्कर्षों लिये दवाएँ to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low potential लिये गाली सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or other substances in schedule III.
The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in अनुसूची III.
The complete सूची of अनुसूची IV drugs are as follows.
the प्रशासनिक नियंत्रित substances कोड Number for each drug is included.
US county household मध्य आय 2009.
Median US household आय, 2001-2011
Household आय is a माप commonly used by the United States government and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the आय of प्रत्येक निवासी over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, चाइल्ड support भुगतान प्राप्त, नियमित rental रसीदें, as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household आय था been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999, it has since been flat and even decreased recently.
U.S. मध्य household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before सरकारी लाभ, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings to be माना भाग of the household 's आय.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the उपयोग of household आय remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or भी नामुमकिन.
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of decrease with ऊँचाई लिये an वायुमंडलीय परिवर्तनीय.
The variable शामिल is तापमान unless specified otherwise.
The terminology arises इससे the शब्द lapse in the sense of a decrease or decline.
While most often applied to Earth 's atmosphere the concept can be विस्तारित to कोई gravitationally supported ball of gas.
Blue पहाड़ राज्य is an अमरीकी comedy series that premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
The series producers include Chris Romano and Eric falconer, और it is उत्पादित by lionsgate Television.
The series is about a fictional university, ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य, और इसके फ़ुटबॉल टोली, `` the Mountain Goats. ''
It portrays certain aspects of American university life, including football, sex, binge पीने, दवाएँ, जंगली पार्टी, and hazing.
In February 2012, it थी reported कि ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य would not be renewed for a fourth season.
In March 2013, Ed Marinaro stated कि he is working on a ब्लू Mountain State film.
Apple Inc., formerly Apple कंप्यूटर, inc., is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय निगम headquartered in cupertino, California that designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software and personal computers.
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of कंप्यूटर, the ipod म्यूज़िक खिलाड़ी, the iphone स्मार्टफोन, and the iPad tablet computer.
Its software includes the OS X and आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों, the itunes मीडिया ब्राउजर, the Safari web browser, and the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites.
The company was founded on April 1, 1976, और incorporated as ठहराना कंप्यूटर, Inc. on January 3, 1977.
The word `` Computer '' was removed from its name on जनवरी 9, 2007, reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स बाद the परिचय of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics, and the world 's third-largest मोबाईल फोन मेकर बाद samsung और Nokia.
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the United States in 2008, और in the संसार इससे 2008 to 2012.
However, the company has received criticism for its contractors ' मजदूर practices, और लिये ठहराना 's अपना पर्यावरणीय और कारोबार practices.
, ठहराना maintains 394 खुदरा स्टोर्स in चौदह countries as well as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store.
It is the second-largest publicly traded निगम in the संसार by मार्केट capitalization, with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013.
, the company had 72,800 permanent full-time कर्मचारी और 3,300 अस्थाई full-time employees worldwide.
Its worldwide annual आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 billion.
Section 8 आवास in the South Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing अधिनियम of 1937 ( ), प्रायः बस ज्ञात as खण्ड 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the payment of rental housing assistance to private landlords on behalf of approximately 3.1 million low-income households.
It operates through several programs, the largest of which, the Housing Choice वाउचर कार्यक्रम, pays a विशाल portion of the rents और उपयोगिताएँ of परिचय 2.1 लाख households.
The US Department of आवास और शहरी विकास manages the Section 8 programs.
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता, so a किरायेदार can मूव इससे एक ईकाई of at तनिक न्यूनतम housing quality to another.
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home, with over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ).
The maximum allowed voucher is $ 2200 a माह.
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs, under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a building for low-income tenants, in return for a Federal government guarantee to make up the अंतर between the किरायेदार 's योगदान और the किराया लिये 1 cent in the मालिक 's अनुबंध साथ the सरकारी.
A tenant who leaves a subsidized प्रोजेक्ट होगा खोना अभिगम to the project-based subsidy.
The United States Department of Housing and Urban विकास और संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of दिग्गजों अफेयर्स have a खास खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम पुकारा vash ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ), or HUD-VASH, which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans.
Restaurants categorized by प्रकार और सूचना परिचय these different types.
U.S. Federal Reserve notes in the mid-1990s
The history of the United States डालर कवर अधिक than 200 years.
